next English Alternative forms neest ( dialectal ) neist ( Scotland ) nex ( archaic ) nex' ( dialectal ) Etymology From Middle English nexte , nexste , nixte , from Old English nīehsta , nīehste , etc. , inflected forms of nīehst ( “ nearest , next ” ) , superlative form of nēah ( “ nigh , near ” ) , corresponding to Proto-Germanic *nēhwist ( “ nearest , closest ” ) ; equivalent to nigh + -est . Cognate with Saterland Frisian naist ( “ next ” ) , Dutch naast ( “ next ” ) , German nächst ( “ next ” ) , Danish næste ( “ next ” ) , Swedish näst ( “ next ” ) , Icelandic næst ( “ next ” ) , Persian نزد ( nazd , “ near , with ” ) . Pronunciation enPR : nĕ kst , IPA ( key ) : / nɛkst / Audio ( US ) Rhymes : -ɛkst Adjective next ( not comparable ) Nearest in place or position , having nothing similar intervening ; adjoining . The man in the next bunk kept me awake all night with his snoring . She lives a mile or two away , in the next village . ( obsolete ) Most direct , or shortest or nearest in distance or time . Nearest in order , succession , or rank ; immediately following ( or sometimes preceding ) in order . Please turn to the next page . On Wednesday next , I 'm going to Spain . the next chapter ; the next week ; the Sunday next before Easter The man was driven by his love for money and his desire to become the next Bill Gates . ( chiefly law ) Nearest in relationship . ( See also next of kin . ) next friend Usage notes Near was originally the comparative form of nigh ; the superlative form was next . Nigh is used today mostly in archaic , poetic , or regional contexts . Synonyms ( nearest in order ) : See also Thesaurus : former or Thesaurus : subsequent Antonyms previous Derived terms next - day Determiner next Denotes the one immediately following the current or most recent one . Next week would be a good time to meet . I 'll know better next time . ( of days of the week or months of the year ) Closest in the future , or closest but one if the closest is very soon ; of days , sometimes thought to specifically refer to the instance closest to seven days ( one week ) in the future . The party is next Tuesday ; that is , not tomorrow , but eight days from now . When you say next Thursday , do you mean Thursday this week or Thursday next week ? See also last this this coming week ( as in Saturday week ) Adverb next ( not comparable ) In a time , place , rank or sequence closest or following . They live in the next closest house . It 's the next best thing to ice cream . ( conjunctive ) So as to follow in time or sequence something previously mentioned . First we removed all the handles ; next , we stripped off the old paint . On the first subsequent occasion . Financial panic , earthquakes , oil spills , riots . What comes next ? When we next meet , you 'll be married . Antonyms previously Preposition next ( obsolete or poetic ) On the side of ; nearest or adjacent to ; next to . Noun next ( uncountable ) The one that follows after this one . Next , please , do n't hold up the queue ! One moment she was there , the next she was n't . The week after next