school English Pronunciation enPR : sko͞ol , IPA ( key ) : / skuːl / Audio ( Received Pronunciation ) Rhymes : -uːl Etymology 1 From Middle English scole , schole ( “ group of persons , multitude , host , school of fish ” ) , from Middle Dutch scole ( “ multitude , troop of people , swarm of animals ” ) , from Old Dutch *scola , *skola ( “ troop , multitude ” ) , from Proto-Germanic *skulō ( “ crowd ” ) , from Proto-Indo-European *(s)kʷel- ( “ crowd , people ” ) . Cognate with Middle Low German schōle ( “ multitude , troop ” ) , Old English scolu ( “ troop or band of people , host , multitude , school of fish ” ) . Doublet of shoal . Alternative forms skull ( obsolete ) Noun school ( 1 ) of fish . school ( plural schools ) ( collective ) A group of fish or a group of marine mammals such as porpoises , dolphins , or whales . The divers encountered a huge school of mackerel . A multitude . Synonyms ( fish ) : shoal Verb school ( third - person singular simple present schools , present participle schooling , simple past and past participle schooled ) ( intransitive ) ( of fish ) To form into , or travel in a school . Etymology 2 Elementary school From Middle English scole , from Old English scōl ( “ place of education ” ) , from Proto-Germanic *skōla ( “ school ” ) , from Late Latin schola , scola ( “ learned discussion or dissertation , lecture , school ” ) , from Ancient Greek σχολεῖον ( skholeîon ) , from σχολή ( skholḗ , “ spare time , leisure ; conversations and the knowledge gained through them during free time ; the places where these conversations took place ” ) , from Proto-Indo-European *seǵʰ- ( “ to hold , have , possess ” ) . Doublet of schola and shul . Compare Old Frisian skūle , schūle ( “ school ” ) ( West Frisian skoalle , Saterland Frisian Skoule ) , Dutch school ( “ school ” ) , German Low German School ( “ school ” ) , Old High German scuola ( “ school ” ) , Old Norse skóli ( “ school ” ) . Influenced in some senses by Middle English schole ( “ group of persons , host , company ” ) , from Middle Dutch scole ( “ multitude , troop , band ” ) . See school 1 . Related also to Old High German sigi ( German Sieg , “ victory ” ) , Old English siġe , sigor ( “ victory ” ) . Alternative forms schole ( obsolete ) Noun school ( countable and uncountable , plural schools ) ( US , Canada ) An institution dedicated to teaching and learning ; an educational institution . Our children attend a public school in our neighborhood . Harvard University is a famous American postsecondary school . ( Britain ) An educational institution providing primary and secondary education , prior to tertiary education ( college or university ) . ( UK ) At Eton College , a period or session of teaching . Divinity , history and geography are studied for two schools per week . Within a larger educational institution , an organizational unit , such as a department or institute , which is dedicated to a specific subject area . We are enrolled in the same university , but I attend the School of Economics and my brother is in the School of Music . An art movement , a community of artists . The Barbizon school of painters were part of an art movement towards Realism in art , which arose in the context of the dominant Romantic Movement of the time . ( considered collectively ) The followers of a particular doctrine ; a particular way of thinking or particular doctrine ; a school of thought . These economists belong to the monetarist school . The time during which classes are attended or in session in an educational institution . I 'll see you after school . The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and honours are held . The canons , precepts , or body of opinion or practice , sanctioned by the authority of a particular class or age . He was a gentleman of the old school . An establishment offering specialized instruction , as for driving , cooking , typing , coding , etc. Synonyms ( institution dedicated to teaching and learning ) : academy , college , university ( organizational unity within an educational institution ) : college , department , faculty , institute Hyponyms See also Thesaurus : school Coordinate terms ( institution providing primary and secondary education ) : nursery school , kindergarten , college , polytechnic , university Verb school ( third - person singular simple present schools , present participle schooling , simple past and past participle schooled ) ( transitive ) To educate , teach , or train ( often , but not necessarily , in a school ) . Many future prime ministers were schooled in Eton . ( transitive ) To defeat emphatically , to teach an opponent a harsh lesson . ( transitive ) To control , or compose , one 's expression . She took care to school her expression , not giving away any of her feelings .