Description : Followup 4 months status post percutaneous screw fixation of a right Schatzker IV tibial plateau fracture and second through fifth metatarsal head fractures treated nonoperatively . REASON FOR VISIT : Followup 4 months status post percutaneous screw fixation of a right Schatzker IV tibial plateau fracture and second through fifth metatarsal head fractures treated nonoperatively . HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS : The patient is a 59 - year - old gentleman who is now approximately 4 months status post percutaneous screw fixation of Schatzker IV tibial plateau fracture and nonoperative management of second through fifth metatarsal head fractures . He is currently at home and has left nursing home facility . He states that his pain is well controlled . He has been working with physical therapy two to three times a week . He has had no drainage or fever . He has noticed some increasing paresthesias in his bilateral feet but has a history of spinal stenosis with lower extremity neuropathy . FINDINGS : On physical exam , his incision is near well healed . He has no effusion noted . His range of motion is 10 to 105 degrees . He has no pain or crepitance . On examination of his right foot , he is nontender to palpation of the metatarsal heads . He has 4 out of 5 strength in EHL , FHL , tibialis , and gastroc - soleus complex . He does have decreased sensation to light touch in the L4 - L5 distribution of his feet bilaterally . X - rays taken including AP and lateral of the right knee demonstrate a healed medial tibial plateau fracture status post percutaneous screw fixation . Examination of three views of the right foot demonstrates the second through fifth metatarsal head fractures . These appear to be extraarticular . They are all in a bayonet arrangement , but there appears to be bridging callus between the fragments on the oblique film . ASSESSMENT : Four months status post percutaneous screw fixation of the right medial tibial plateau and second through fifth metatarsal head fractures . PLANS : I would like the patient to continue working with physical therapy . He may be weight bearing as tolerated on his right side . I would like him to try to continue to work to gain full extension of the right knee and increase his knee flexion . I also would like him to work on ambulation and strengthening . I discussed with the patient his concerning symptoms of paresthesias . He said he has had the left thigh for a number of years and has been followed by a neurologist for this . He states that he has had some right - sided paresthesias now for a number of weeks . He claims he has no other symptoms of any worsening stenosis . I told him that I would see his neurologist for evaluation or possibly a spinal surgeon if his symptoms progress . The patient should follow up in 2 months at which time he should have AP and lateral of the right knee and three views of the right foot .