As in the game battle bus has launched one more time , the Fortnite World Cup Finals ends right here . All 100 players on your screen there , Jack , Bugha , sitting out in front of everyone thus far a commanding lead . Kreo the winner of the previous game flying in there the northeast corner of the map . Spread of players across the screen , there 's your top ten on the left side , Bugha , Psalm , Kreo , Skite , Nayte , Riversan , Rhux and the rest . Average placements thus far of 25th for Kreo , only 8 eliminations but 30 points enough to put him in third place thus far . One thing to remember from yesterday , Nayte and Saf held on to the lead the first five games and it slipped away in Game six . Bugha has been in the lead for all five games . He has never lost the first place spot . Will he suffer the same fate or can he close it out right here to remain our Fortnite world champ ? Bugha by the way he is from Pennsylvania 16 year old player , Sentinels , qualified the very first week for the World Cup . So he just got his first part - time job to try to start earning money to buy himself a car . But instead after this could walk away with three million dollars , he 's gon na walk on in and say I quit , ca n't wait for him to get home , you know , imagine he wins three million dollars here , his parents gon na ask him to take the trash out and he 's gon na laugh . Yeah right . Pay his butler to do that , I guess at that point . Celce currently set up many builds , one of these very early awkward fights , sees those as well . You look at those what he has , common infantry rifle 25 shots and a drum gun . Jack , one of the first four to go down in this match is Skite , who was in the old place already , already gone from that top spot . If I do – as he throws them down , can you see all the players surrounded outside the sunny side of the map ? Celce he continues to bounce around for a moment , any AR shots left , will get solved at the end , right ? Which 's good , anything good counts . The farming of stone continues , Maufin and Zayt outside of Loot Lake just fighting on the outskirts of it . He 's just kind of building walling against any pressure from Zayt , does n't want to get caught on rotation . Interesting load , that gold combat very early . That 's a very solid pickup to start this match , single shockwave remaining , legendary grenade launcher drop gun and as well . We talk about a great starting inventory , BlastR in a fight , outside Pressure Plant but you 're only 73 HP , but again you 're this far to the tournament , you kind of get simpler , you just kind of go for it , you got to just forge and engage . What 's up ? Shot comes on through , not able to get it done as of yet . BlastR still healing up , will have bandages to get back up to take 75 HP . Looks like Tfue picking up in elimination . To see how things play out . 90 players remaining . The first circle starts to close in 50 seconds . Bandaging on the egg BlastR is just hanging out here . That player down below gon na see if he can take shots here in a second . Tchub was gon na roll all the way down looks like no engagement gon na happen . Here , JarkoS , letw1k3 , two players that have faced off against each other a number of times , gon na go for the wall . Yes , the angle inside and pushes on through a solid aggressive play . letw1k3 pick up his first elimination of Game six . Very clean and that will end JarkoS ' Fortnite World Cup run , solid performance earlier on . We 'll see where he stacks up with the rest of this lobby when it 's all said and done . Reminder this is our final game here tonight . Use the hashtag #FortniteWorldCup get it trending just like yesterday . Well , I 've said the millions of people watching online , Psalm was our player as well near the top of the leaderboards . What could he do in this last game ? Could he make the trek to try to catch up to Bugha who was 15 points , 15 points ahead , in first . Pika one v. one and angled down through a handful of edits here at Megamall is gon na push around the side and try and make his way inside mall itself . Pika earned 12 of his total points in just the last match and I think that says a lot about what is possible . In 11th place when we rolled into this game Pika trying to find a way inside , pushing down through the outside . Does in fact get the wall replace , are you kidding me ? Used the shockwave to get down the wall . The player inside was smacking out of it . He , that 's unbelievable . He called the bluff , he called the bluff . The guy was trying to break the wall to secure for his own . Pika was like " okay , break the wall for me , I 'll just replace it with my own . " He does just that . Pika , full HP , two slurp juices , 6 minis , a very good assault for the shotgun but looks like the aggression does n't end here . He can just continue to play these box fights by using the shockwave to try to chomp down this opponent again . Said it once , it surprised you to use that same tactic you 've seen . At this point , 100 HP , 100 shield . I do not blame him for being aggressive here , knowing that players may be a little sparse in terms of loot . He 's trying to track Kinstaar on the outside rotating around the edge of Megamall . These two players gon na end up on top of each other before you know it , oh my gosh , floor loot . Okay . A heavy sniper rifle . That 's end of another slurp . Okay . He 's looking for it . See him watching , waiting . Does use those audio cues to try and track down the opponent underneath opts to back out of the fight for just a second . Get a different angle because awareness inside Megamall is insane knowing exactly where his opponents are and exactly when to push .