Now after last episodes 's amazing conclusion where Napoli they beat us in the first leg of the Champions League quarter-finals and then we brought it to them in the second leg , and now advancing into the semi-finals against Manchester City , today 's episode is gon na start off with three games that you know are n't as hard as the last couple of matches we 've had , and then on uh 27th of April , we have Manchester City in the first leg of the semi-finals , which is going to be possibly one of the hardest games I 'm gon na be playing because Napoli has given me our game and Manchester City I know the way they play , they 're exactly like Napoli . So we 're just gon na start off straightaway with a simulated match against Benevento . We 're gon na play one of these three games just to get in the mood of playing games this episode . We 've got a pretty rotated lineup Jović scoring , van de Beek and Ibrahimovic coming on 3 - 1 victory . Bakayoko getting himself a red card . Now I 've mentioned that earlier in the Serie A UVA has just ran away with the Scudetto 89 points and right behind them is Napoli us with 76 . The Scudetto was gon na be tough all the time UVA 's just way too strong . Genoa is the next match coming up and I 'm going to be playing this match because it 's at home . I 'd like to maybe play some of our Academy players in this match . The last match he scored Jović so I 'm gon na continue hopefully his form in this game . He 's up top with Galano . Galano started off well three goals and then just has n't scored . I do n't know . I thought he was gon na be such a good future star but he 's still young so maybe he can get himself some goals here . Paquetá and almost starting Paquetá over Bennacer van de Beek , Tonali . We have Todibo , Alderweireld in defense and obviously in goal we have Gigio . Like I said , the Scudetto if it was n't gon na be this season , I 'm pushing all for next season in the Champions League . I think we 're gon na have to just try and go all - out and win it in our first season back . That would be something incredibly special , but before we do that we need to get through Manchester City and that is a poor pass by Paquetá . Here 's Paquetá now finding Galano , Galano is in behind that is great stuff Galano and maybe could have went to ground opportunity for him good pass by Paquetá . Sandro Tonali , Luca Jović , he 's gon na touch it and try to hit it . I did n't ah - I should have maybe taken it a little bit inside the box , but you know what , that resulted in a corner and God forbid we would get anything off corners . Jović , turned , van de Beek , looking for something . He finds Galano in some space , somebody take a shot . Ok Favilli and of — what ? How ... what sorry what how is there a penalty what just happened ? One minute it looked like it was gon na be a corner , the next Favilli is scoring a penalty and we 're one nil down . Ball gets played in uh all right apparently Alderweireld clipped Favilli . Genoa take the lead one nil after doing absolutely nothing all match . Van de Beek , Paquetá , now Theo , Theo can finally cross to the back post deep , but uh how many times how many times is he gon na get an overhead kick and miss . This guy has scored overhead kicks from my field and can not finish a simple bicycle kick in the Box even a moment , I 'm going to release you . Welcome to Adam gets frustrated about losing against Genoa , one nil complete BS , how we did n't score , how they got a penalty , to make things worse we need to play Manchester City , who today 's ah is next we 're down to 4th place and who the next is in 14th place , but because I 'm gon na simulate this , it 's gon na make me win for sure . No remark on Conti , Todibo , Musacchio , Bakker , probably not the best back line but that 's what I 'm going with . Paquetá scoring one Jović scoring two very happy they took Leão off but they brought on Ibrahimovic so he 's gon na be tired . It 's a 3 - 1 victory , Genoa was just some BS . We did it we made it to the semi - finals And I just want to check out what the club objective was for the Champions League this season they wanted us to reach the semi-finals they thought that with the club we had and the players we had we could have made it to the semis and we did .