Dr. Means , It has come to our attention that you are planning to do abortions at your Harry St. location . I am stunned that you would take your career in this direction . Fewer people than ever before are pro-abortion , quality physicians would n't even consider associating themselves with it , and more Americans than ever before are unwilling to turn a blind eye to the killing of a baby when the ratio for adoption is 36 couples to 1 baby . Maybe you do n't realize the consequences of killing the innocent . If Tiller could speak from hell , he would tell you what a soulless existence you are purposefully considering , all in the name of greed . Thousands of people are already looking into your background , not just in Wichita , but from all over the U.S. They will know your habits and routines . They know where you shop , who your friends are , what you drive , where you live . You will be checking under your car every day — because maybe today is the day someone places an explosive under it . People will be picketing your home , your office . You will come under greater scrutiny than you 've ever known , legally and professionally . Much worse than the disciplinary actions and ethical concerns that you 've been facing . You will become a pariah — no physician will want to associate with you . You will be seen like all the other hacks that have stooped to doing abortions when they were n't good enough to maintain a real practice . You will lose your legitimate clientele , as no one bringing a baby into this world wants to be in the same facility where you are also killing them . You will have trouble keeping staff who are willing to participate in innocent blood - shedding and wo n't be able to keep the sanitary conditions necessary to maintain a healthy medical facility . You will end up having the same kind of rat - infested , dirty facility that they have in north - eastern Kansas . Anyone who partners with you will experience the same headaches . Not to mention the fact that you will be haunted by bloody , squirming , dismembered babies in your sleep . You ca n't do what is morally reprehensible and enjoy peace of mind . The Bible says , " There are six things the Lord hates ... hands that shed innocent blood , a heart that devises evil schemes , feet that are quick to rush into evil " Proverbs 6 : 16 - 18 . Abortion kills human life - it matters not if you kill it at 6 weeks or at 26 weeks , it 's still the unnatural , violent death of a human baby for the sake of convenience . You are doing what the Humane Society would n't allow to happen to a pregnant dog or cat . I urge you to think very carefully about the choices you are making . There are 3 churches within 1 block of your practice , and many others who must take a stand . We will not let this abomination continue without doing everything we can to stop it . We pray you will either make the right choice and use your medical practice to heal instead of kill , or that God will bring judgment on you , the likes of which you can not imagine . We do n't want you killing our children in our community . Good people are tired of this rampant evil , and will stand against you every step of the way . Do the world a favor and ABORT this stupid plan of yours . It 's not too late to change your mind . Angel Dillard