Description : Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder , chronic renal insufficiency , squamous cell carcinoma of the skin , anemia secondary to chronic renal insufficiency and chemotherapy , and hypertension . The patient is here for followup visit and chemotherapy . CHIEF COMPLAINT : The patient is here for followup visit and chemotherapy . DIAGNOSES : 1. Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder . 2. Chronic renal insufficiency . 3. Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin . 4. Anemia secondary to chronic renal insufficiency and chemotherapy . 5. Hypertension . HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS : A 51 - year - old white male diagnosed with PTLD in latter half of 2007 . He presented with symptoms of increasing adenopathy , abdominal pain , weight loss , and anorexia . He did not seek medical attention immediately . He was finally hospitalized by the renal transplant service and underwent a lymph node biopsy in the groin , which showed diagnosis of large cell lymphoma . He was discussed at the hematopathology conference . Chemotherapy with rituximab plus cyclophosphamide , daunorubicin , vincristine , and prednisone was started . First cycle of chemotherapy was complicated by sepsis despite growth factor support . He also appeared to have become disoriented either secondary to sepsis or steroid therapy . The patient has received 5 cycles of chemotherapy to date . He did not keep his appointment for a PET scan after 3 cycles because he was not feeling well . His therapy has been interrupted for infection related to squamous cell cancer , skin surgery as well as complaints of chest infection . The patient is here for the sixth and final cycle of chemotherapy . He states he feels well . He denies any nausea , vomiting , cough , shortness of breath , chest pain or fatigue . He denies any tingling or numbness in his fingers . Review of systems is otherwise entirely negative . Performance status on the ECOG scale is 1 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION : VITAL SIGNS : He is afebrile . Blood pressure 161 / 80 , pulse 65 , weight 71.5 kg , which is essentially unchanged from his prior visit . There is mild pallor noted . There is no icterus , adenopathy or petechiae noted . CHEST : Clear to auscultation . CARDIOVASCULAR : S1 and S2 normal with regular rate and rhythm . Systolic flow murmur is best heard in the pulmonary area . ABDOMEN : Soft and nontender with no organomegaly . Renal transplant is noted in the right lower quadrant with a scar present . EXTREMITIES : Reveal no edema . LABORATORY DATA : CBC from today shows white count of 9.6 with a normal differential , ANC of 7400 , hemoglobin 8.9 , hematocrit 26.5 with an MCV of 109 , and platelet count of 220,000 . ASSESSMENT AND PLAN : 1. Diffuse large B - cell lymphoma following transplantation . The patient is to receive his sixth and final cycle of chemotherapy today . PET scan has been ordered to be done within 2 weeks . He will see me back for the visit in 3 weeks with CBC , CMP , and LDH . 2. Chronic renal insufficiency . 3. Anemia secondary to chronic renal failure and chemotherapy . He is to continue on his regimen of growth factor support . 4. Hypertension . This is elevated today because he held his meds because he is getting rituximab other than that this is well controlled . His CMP is pending from today . 5. Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin . The scalp is well healed . He still has an open wound on the right posterior aspect of his trunk . This has no active drainage , but it is yet to heal . This probably will heal by secondary intention once chemotherapy is finished . Prescription for prednisone as part of his chemotherapy has been given to him .