Proof The proof proceeds by the Principle of Mathematical Induction on the number of vertices . For all n ∈ N>0 , let P ( n ) be the proposition : Gn can be assigned a proper vertex k - coloring such that k ≤ 5 . Basis for the Induction P ( r ) is trivially true for 1 ≤ r ≤ 5 , as there are no more than 5 vertices to be colored . This is our basis for the induction . Induction Hypothesis Now we need to show that , if P ( r ) is true , where r ≥ 5 , then it logically follows that P ( r + 1 ) is true . So this is our induction hypothesis : Gr can be assigned a proper vertex k - coloring such that k ≤ 5 . Then we need to show : Gr+1 can be assigned a proper vertex k - coloring such that k ≤ 5 . Induction Step This is our induction step : According to the Minimum Degree Bound for Simple Planar Graph , Gr+1 has at least one vertex with at most 5 edges . Let this vertex be labeled x . Remove vertex x from Gr+1 to create another graph , G′r. By the induction hypothesis , G′r is five - colorable . Suppose all five colors were not connected to x . Then we can give x the missing color and thus five - color Gr+1 . Suppose all five colors are connected to x . Then examine the five vertices x was adjacent to . Call them y1 , y2 , y3 , y4 and y5 in clockwise order around x . Let y1 , y2 , y3 , y4 and y5 be colored respectively by colors c1 , c2 , c3 , c4 and c5 . Let us denote Hi,j a subgraph of G′r induced by the vertices colored with ci and cj . Consider H1,3 . Suppose there exists no path between y1 and y3 in H1,3 . Thus , H1,3 is disconnected into two components . We can , then , interchange the colors c1 and c3 in the component that is connected to y1 . Thus x is no longer adjacent to a vertex of color c1 , so x can be colored c1 . Suppose there exists a path between y1 and y3 in H1,3 . Including the vertex x in this path we get a circuit C . Since we indexed the vertices y1 , y2 , y3 , y4 and y5 clockwise , exactly one of the vertices y2 and y4 is inside C . Hence , y2 and y4 are in different connected components of H2,4 Then we can switch colors c2 and c4 in the component of H2,4 that is connected to y2 . Now x is no longer adjacent to a vertex of color c2 , so we can color it c2 . This graph illustrates the case in which the path from y1 to y3 can be completed . Blue = c1 , Yellow = c2 , Red = c3 , Green = c4 , Turquoise = c5 . The dotted lines represent edges and vertices that might exist , as this is simply a fairly minimal example graph that matches the conditions . So P ( r ) ⟹ P ( r + 1 ) and the result follows by the Principle of Mathematical Induction . Therefore : For all n ∈ N>0 , Gn can be assigned a proper vertex k - coloring such that k ≤ 5 .