trust English Etymology From Middle English trust ( “ trust , protection ” ) . Long considered a borrowing from Old Norse traust ( “ confidence , help , protection ” ) , itself from Proto - Germanic *traustą , but the root vocalism is incompatible , and now it 's considered a reflex of an unattested Old English *trust , from a rare zero - grade proto - Germanic variant of the same root also attested in Middle High German getrüste ( “ host ” ) . Ultimately from Proto - Indo - European *deru- ( be firm , hard , solid ” ) . Akin to Danish trøst ( “ comfort , solace ” ) , Saterland Frisian Traast ( “ comfort , solace ” ) , West Frisian treast ( “ comfort , solace ” ) , Dutch troost ( “ comfort , consolation ” ) , German Trost ( “ comfort , consolation ” ) , Gothic trausti ( trausti , “ alliance , pact ” ) . Doublet of tryst . More at true , tree . Pronunciation enPR : trŭst , IPA ( key ) : /trʌst/ , [tɹʌst] , [tɹɐst] , [t͡ʃɹ-] ( Northern England ) IPA ( key ) : /trʊst/ Audio ( GA ) Rhymes : -ʌst Noun trust ( countable and uncountable , plural trusts ) Confidence in or reliance on some person or quality . He needs to regain her trust if he is ever going to win her back . to lose trust in someone build up trust a relationship built on mutual trust Dependence upon something in the future ; hope . Confidence in the future payment for goods or services supplied ; credit . I was out of cash , but the landlady let me have it on trust . That which is committed or entrusted ; something received in confidence ; a charge . That upon which confidence is reposed ; ground of reliance ; hope . ( rare ) Trustworthiness , reliability . The condition or obligation of one to whom anything is confided ; responsible charge or office . ( law ) The confidence vested in a person who has legal ownership of a property to manage for the benefit of another . I put the house into my sister 's trust . ( law ) An arrangement whereby property or money is given to be held by a third party ( a trustee ) , on the basis that it will be managed for the benefit of , or eventually transferred to , a stated beneficiary ; for example , money to be given to a child when he or she reaches adulthood . A group of businessmen or traders organised for mutual benefit to produce and distribute specific commodities or services , and managed by a central body of trustees . ( computing ) Affirmation of the access rights of a user of a computer system . Synonyms ( confidence in a person or quality ) belief , confidence , faith ( hope ) expectation , hope Antonyms distrust mistrust untrust wantrust Verb trust ( third - person singular simple present trusts , present participle trusting , simple past and past participle trusted ) ( transitive ) To place confidence in , to rely on , to confide in . We can not trust anyone who deceives us . ( intransitive , with in ) To have faith in ; to rely on for continuing support or aid . In God We Trust ( official US motto ) ( transitive ) To give credence to ; to believe ; to credit . ( transitive ) To hope confidently ; to believe ( usually with a phrase or infinitive clause as the object ) I trust you have cleaned your room ? ( transitive ) to show confidence in a person by entrusting them with something . ( transitive ) To commit , as to one 's care ; to entrust . ( transitive ) To give credit to ; to sell to upon credit , or in confidence of future payment . Merchants and manufacturers trust their customers annually with goods . ( intransitive followed by to To rely on ( something ) , as though having trust ( on it ) . to trust to luck Having lost the book , he had to trust to his memory for further details . ( archaic , transitive To risk ; to venture confidently . ( intransitive ) To have trust ; to be credulous ; to be won to confidence ; to confide . ( archaic , intransitive To sell or deliver anything in reliance upon a promise of payment ; to give credit . Antonyms distrust mistrust Adjective trust ( comparative more trust , superlative most trust ) ( obsolete ) Secure , safe . ( obsolete ) Faithful , dependable . ( law ) of or relating to a trust .