Description : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) , autoimmune hemolytic anemia , and oral ulcer . The patient was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and was noted to have autoimmune hemolytic anemia at the time of his CLL diagnosis . CHIEF COMPLAINT : 1. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) . 2. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia . 3. Oral ulcer . HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS : The patient is a 72 - year - old gentleman who was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in May 2008 . He was noted to have autoimmune hemolytic anemia at the time of his CLL diagnosis . He has been on chronic steroids to control his hemolysis and is currently on prednisone 5 mg every other day . He comes in to clinic today for follow - up and complete blood count . At his last office visit we discontinued this prophylactic antivirals and antibacterial . CURRENT MEDICATIONS : Prilosec 20 mg b.i.d. , levothyroxine 50 mcg q.d. , Lopressor 75 mg q.d. , vitamin C 500 mg q.d. , multivitamin q.d. , simvastatin 20 mg q.d. , and prednisone 5 mg q.o.d. ALLERGIES : Vicodin . REVIEW OF SYSTEMS : The patient reports ulcer on his tongue and his lip . He has been off of Valtrex for five days . He is having some difficulty with his night vision with his left eye . He has a known cataract . He denies any fevers , chills , or night sweats . He continues to have headaches . The rest of his review of systems is negative . PHYSICAL EXAM : VITALS : BP : 120 / 74 . HEART RATE : 72 . TEMP : 97.8 . Weight : 112.7 kg . GEN : He has a obvious cold sore on his bottom lip on the left . HEENT : Pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light . Sclerae are anicteric . His oropharynx is notable for ulcer on his tongue . No ulcers on his buccal mucosa . NECK : Supple . He has no cervical or supraclavicular adenopathy . LUNGS : Clear to auscultation bilaterally . CV : Regular rate ; normal S1 , S2 , no murmurs . ABDOMEN : Soft . He has positive bowel sounds . No hepatosplenomegaly . EXT : No lower extremity edema . LABORATORY DATA : His white blood cell count is 4.6 , hemoglobin 14.2 , hematocrit 42 , and platelets 207,000 . ASSESSMENT / PLAN : This is a 72 - year - old gentleman with chronic lymphocytic leukemia on chronic steroids for autoimmune hemolytic anemia . His blood counts are relatively stable at 5 mg of prednisone every other day . We will plan on putting him back on the Valtrex and decreasing his steroids to 1 mg daily . I will see him back in clinic in a week .