Description : Human immunodeficiency virus disease with stable control on Atripla . Resolving left gluteal abscess , completing Flagyl . Diabetes mellitus , currently on oral therapy . Hypertension , depression , and chronic musculoskeletal pain of unclear etiology . HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS : The patient is a 41 - year - old white male with a history of HIV disease . His last CD4 count was 425 , viral load was less than 50 in 08 / 07 . He was recently hospitalized for left gluteal abscess , for which he underwent I & D and he has newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus . He also has a history of hypertension and hypertriglyceridemia . He had been having increased urination and thirst . He was seen in the hospital by the endocrinology staff and treated with insulin while hospitalized and getting treatment for his perirectal abscess . The endocrine team apparently felt that insulin might be best for this patient , but because of financial issues , elected to place him on Glucophage and glyburide . The patient reports that he has been taking the medication . He is in general feeling better . He says that his gluteal abscess is improving and he will be following up with Surgery today . CURRENT MEDICATIONS : 1. Gabapentin 600 mg at night . 2. Metformin 1000 mg twice a day . 3. Glipizide 5 mg a day . 4. Flagyl 500 mg four times a day . 5. Flexeril 10 mg twice a day . 6. Paroxetine 20 mg a day . 7. Atripla one at night . 8. Clonazepam 1 mg twice a day . 9. Blood pressure medicine , name unknown . REVIEW OF SYSTEMS : He otherwise has a negative review of systems . PHYSICAL EXAMINATION : VITAL SIGNS : Temperature 36.6 , blood pressure 145 / 90 , pulse 123 , respirations 20 , and weight is 89.9 kg ( 198 pounds . ) HEENT : Unremarkable except for some submandibular lymph nodes . His fundi are benign . NECK : Supple . LUNGS : Clear to auscultation and percussion . CARDIAC : Reveals regular rate and rhythm without murmur , rub or gallop . ABDOMEN : Soft and nontender without organomegaly or mass . EXTREMITIES : Show no cyanosis , clubbing or edema . GU : Examination of the perineum revealed an open left gluteal wound that appears clear with no secretions . IMPRESSION : 1. Human immunodeficiency virus disease with stable control on Atripla . 2. Resolving left gluteal abscess , completing Flagyl . 3. Diabetes mellitus , currently on oral therapy . 4. Hypertension . 5. Depression . 6. Chronic musculoskeletal pain of unclear etiology . PLAN : The patient will continue his current medications . He will have laboratory studies done in 3 to 4 weeks , and we will see him a few weeks thereafter . He has been encouraged to keep his appointment with his psychologist .