Proof Let AB be a second bimedial straight line divided into its medials at C . Let AC > CB . Let DE be a rational straight line . Let DEFG equal to AB2 be applied to DE producing DG as its breadth . It is to be demonstrated that DG is a third binomial straight line . From Proposition 4 of Book II : Square of Sum : AB2 = AC2 + CB2 + 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB Let the rectangle DH be applied to DE such that DH = AC2 . Let the rectangle KL be applied to DE such that KL = BC2 . Then the rectangle MF is equal to 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB . Let MG be bisected at N . Let NO be drawn parallel to ML ( or GF , which is the same thing ) . Therefore each of the rectangles MO and NF equals AC ⋅ CB . We have that AB is a second bimedial which has been divided into its medials at C . Therefore , by definition , AC and CB are medial straight lines which are commensurable in square only such that AC ⋅ CB is a medial rectangle . Thus , by definition , AC2 and CB2 are also medial . From : Proposition 15 of Book X : Commensurability of Sum of Commensurable Magnitudes and : Porism to Proposition 23 of Book X : Straight Line Commensurable with Medial Straight Line is Medial it follows that : DL is medial . We have that DL has been applied to the rational straight line DE . Therefore from Proposition 22 of Book X : Square on Medial Straight Line : MD is rational and incommensurable in length with DE . For the same reason : MG is also rational straight line and incommensurable in length with ML , which equals DE . Therefore each of DM and MG is rational straight line and incommensurable in length with DE . We have that AC is incommensurable in length with CB . Also : AC : CB = AC2 : AC ⋅ CB Therefore by Proposition 11 of Book X : Commensurability of Elements of Proportional Magnitudes : AC2 is incommensurable with AC ⋅ CB . Hence by : Proposition 12 of Book X : Commensurability is Transitive Relation and : Proposition 13 of Book X : Commensurable Magnitudes are Incommensurable with Same Magnitude it follows that : AC2 + CB2 is incommensurable with 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB . That is : DL is incommensurable with MF . So from : Proposition 1 of Book VI : Areas of Triangles and Parallelograms Proportional to Base and : Proposition 11 of Book X : Commensurability of Elements of Proportional Magnitudes it follows that : DM is incommensurable in length with MG . But DM and MG are rational straight lines which are incommensurable in length with each other . Therefore by definition DG is binomial . It remains to be proved that DG is a third binomial straight line . From Lemma to Proposition 60 of Book X : Square on Binomial Straight Line applied to Rational Straight Line : AC2 + CB2 > 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB Therefore DL > MF . From Proposition 1 of Book VI : Areas of Triangles and Parallelograms Proportional to Base : DM > MG Since : AC2 is commensurable with CB2 it follows that : DH is commensurable with KL . So from : Proposition 1 of Book VI : Areas of Triangles and Parallelograms Proportional to Base and : Proposition 11 of Book X : Commensurability of Elements of Proportional Magnitudes it follows that : DK is commensurable in length with KM . Also DK ⋅ KM = MN2 . Thus from Lemma to Proposition 17 of Book X : Condition for Commensurability of Roots of Quadratic Equation : DM2 is greater than MG2 by the square on a straight line commensurable in length with DM . Also : Neither DM nor MG is commensurable in length with DE . Therefore DG is a third binomial straight line . ■