The 1995 Anime “ Ghost in the Shell ” Is More Relevant than Ever in Today ’s Technologically Complex Society ( Maynard ) Andrew D. Maynard #review , #descriptive , #reportinginformation , #argument , #currentevents , #kairos #technology “ Motoko Kusanagi - Ghost in the Shell cosplay ” by GEMMA DENISE is licensed under CC BY - NC - ND 2.0 When the anime movie Ghost in the Shell was released in 1995 , the world wide web was still little more than a novelty , Microsoft was just beginning to find its GUI - feet , and artificial intelligence research was in the doldrums . Against this background , Ghost was remarkably prescient for its time . Twenty - three years later , it ’s even more relevant as we come to grips with advances in human augmentation , AI , and what it means to be human in a technologically advanced future . Ghost in the Shell is one of twelve science fiction movies that feature in a new book that grapples with the complex intersection between emerging technologies and social responsibility . In Films from the Future : The Technology and Morality of Sci - Fi Movies ( from Mango Publishing ) , I set out to explore the emerging landscape around transformative trends in technology innovation , and the social challenges and opportunities they present . The movies in the book were initially selected to help tell a story of technological convergence and socially responsible innovation . But to my surprise , they ended up opening up much deeper insights into the nature of our relationship with technology . Identity - hacking Ghost in the Shell opens with cyborg special - operative Major Kusanagi helping track down a talented hacker — aka the “ Puppet Master ” — who ’s re-writing people ’s “ ghost ” , or what makes them uniquely “ them ” , using implanted brain - machine interfaces . Kusanagi inhabits a world where human augmentation is commonplace , and is almost entirely machine . This technological augmentation provides her and others with super-human abilities . But it also makes them vulnerable — especially to hackers who can effectively re-code their memories . This seems to be the modus operandi of the Puppet Master . Yet as the narrative unfolds , we learn that this is not a person , but an AI developed by US security services that has escaped the leash of its handlers . The Puppet Master ( or “ 2051 ” as it ’s formally designated ) is seeking asylum from its US masters . But it ’s also looking for meaning and purpose as a self - aware entity . Through the ensuing story , Ghost touches on a number of deeply philosophical questions that lie at the heart of society ’s relationship increasingly powerful technologies . These include what it means to be human , the value of diversity , and even the nature of death . As Emily Yoshida so aptly put it in their Beginner ’s Guide to the Ghost in the Shell Universe , Ghost is a “ meditation on consciousness and the philosophy of the self ” . This is where the film comes into its own as it jolts viewers out of the ruts of conventional thinking , and leads them to reflect more deeply on the potential social impacts of technologies like AI , human augmentation , and computer - brain interfaces . Navigating responsible brain - machine augmentation In 2016 Elon Musk established the company Neuralink to develop science fiction - like wireless brain - machine interfaces . Inspired by the neural laces of Iain M. Banks ’ Culture novels , and echoing Ghost , Musk announced on Twitter that , in his opinion , “ Creating a neural lace is the thing that really matters for humanity to achieve symbiosis with machines . ” Yet as Ghost in the Shell so presciently illustrates , where you have read - write brain connections , you ’re likely to have brain - hackers . It ’s by no - means clear how successful Neuralink will be ( the company is still largely flying under the radar ) . But its launch coincides with intense efforts to better - understand and control the human brain , and breakthroughs in optogenetics that could one day enable wireless machine - mind networks . Given these and similar developments , it ’s not beyond the realms of possibility that someone will try and fit a subject up with an internet - connected brain interface that can write as well as read what ’s going on inside their head ; and that someone else will attempt to hack into it . Developing such capabilities responsibly will require great care as scientists and others tread the fine line between “ could ” and “ should ” . And it ’ll demand novel ways of thinking creatively about what could possibly go wrong , and how to avoid it . This is where films like Ghost are remarkably helpful in illuminating the risk - landscape around such technologies — not because they get the tech right , but because they reveal often hidden aspects of how people and technologies interact . But Ghost ’s insights go far beyond unpacking the problems of hackable brain implants . Who owns and controls your augmented self ? Throughout Ghost , Major Kusanagi is plagued by doubts of who she is . Do her cybernetic augmentations make her less human , or having less worth ? Is her sense of self — her “ ghost ” — simply an illusion of her machine programming ? And what autonomy does she have when she malfunctions , or needs an upgrade ? These are questions that are already beginning to tax developers and others in the real world . And as robotic and cyber technologies become increasingly advanced , they are only going to become harder to navigate . In 2012 , the South African athlete Oscar Pistorius made history by being the first runner to compete in the Olympic Games with two prosthetic legs . His iconic racing blades came to represent the promise of technological enhancements to overcome human limitations . Yet they stirred up fears of them giving him an unfair advantage that led to him being barred from competing in the previous Olympics . The same year that Pistorius successfully competed in the Olympics , the Canadian researcher Steve Mann was allegedly assaulted because his computer - augmented eye extension offended someone . And in 2015 , patient - advocate Hugo Campos discovered he did n’t legally have access to the implanted defibrillator that kept him alive . These are all relatively small examples of the tension that ’s growing between conventional thinking and human augmentation . But they illustrate how the angst that Kusanagi feels about her augmented body , and how it defines her , is already part of today ’s society . And we ’ve barely touched the tip of this particular iceberg . Again , this is where Ghost forms a powerful canvas on which to explore challenges that often transcend conventional thinking , and play out at the borders of our moral and ethical understanding . Watched in the right way , it can help reveal hidden truths around our relationship with the technologies we ’re building , and guide us toward more socially responsible ways of developing and using it . This , to me , is a power that is inherent in science fiction movies . And is n’t limited to Ghost — in Films from the Future , I draw on films as diverse as Never Let Me Go and Minority Report , to Ex Machina , to tease out insights into the moral and ethical challenges and opportunities that increasingly powerful technologies present . Having immersed myself in these movies and the technologies that inspire them , it ’s clear that , if we want to ensure these trends do n’t cause more problems than they resolve , we desperately need the perspectives that movies like Ghost in the Shell and others reveal . The alternative is risking losing our own “ ghosts ” in the drive to innovate bigger and better , without thinking about the consequences .