Aesthetic Appreciation and Spanish Art : Insights from Eye - Tracking Claire Bailey - Ross claire.bailey-ross@port.ac.uk University of Portsmouth , United Kingdom Andrew Beresford a.m.beresford@durham.ac.uk Durham University , United Kingdom Daniel Smith daniel.smith2@durham.ac.uk Durham University , United Kingdom Claire Warwick c.l.h.warwick@durham.ac.uk Durham University , United Kingdom How do people look at and experience art ? Which elements of specific artworks do they focus on ? Do museum labels have an impact on how people look at artworks ? The viewing experience of art is a complex one , involving issues of perception , attention , memory , decision - making , affect , and emotion . Thus , the time it takes and the ways of visually exploring an artwork can inform about its relevance , interestingness , and even its aesthetic appeal . This paper describes a collaborative pilot project focusing on a unique collection of 17th Century Zurbarán paintings . The Jacob cycle at Auckland Castle is the only UK example of a continental collection preserved in situ in purpose - built surroundings . While studies of the psychology of art have focused on individual works and distinctions between representative / non-representative topics , no work has been completed on the aesthetic appreciation of collections or of devotional themes . In this paper , we report upon the novel insights eye - tracking techniques have provided into the unconscious processes of viewing the unique collection of Zurbarán artworks . The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the effects of different written interpretation on the visual exploration of artworks . We will discuss the potential implications of these techniques and our understanding of visual behaviours on museum and gallery practice . The project brings together established research strengths in Spanish art history , experimental psychology , digital humanities , and museum studies to explore , using eye - tracking techniques , aesthetic reactions to digital representations of the individual Zurbarán artworks as well as the significance of the collection as a whole . Our experience of art develops from the interaction of several cognitive and affective processes ; the beginning of which is a visual scan of the artwork . When regarding an artwork , a viewer gathers information through a series fixations , interspersed by rapid movements of the eye called saccades . The direction of saccades is determined by an interaction between the goals of the observer and the physical properties of the different elements of the scene ( e.g. colour , texture , brightness etc ) . Importantly , studying eye movements offers an insight that does not depend on the participants ’ beliefs , memories or subjective impressions of the artwork . Previous eye tracking research has highlighted the potential to transform the ways we understand visual processing in the arts ( see for example Brieber 2014 ; Binderman et al. , 2005 ) and at the same time offers a direct way of studying several important factors of a museum visit ( Filippini Fantoni et al. , 2013 ; Heidenreich & Turano 2011 ; Milekic 2010 ) . Zurbarán ’s cycle of Jacob and his Sons has been on display in the Long Room at Auckland Castle for over 250 years . It is the only cycle to be preserved in purpose - built surroundings in the UK , and one of very few of its kind in the world . It has a long history in scholarship ( Baron & Beresford 2014 ) , but many key aspects of its production and significance have not yet been fully understood . In this study we used eye - tracking in the first stage of exploring audience experience of the extensive Spanish art collections of County Durham , of which the 13 Zurbarán artworks ( there are actually only 12 Zurbarán artworks , the 13th Benjamin , is a copy by Arthur Pond ) are a key part of , to investigate the ways in which audiences look at Spanish art , how aesthetic experience is evaluated and whether audiences can be encouraged to approach art in different ways . This pilot project primarily investigated how participants visually explore artworks and provides new insights into the potential eye - tracking has to transform the ways we understand visual processing in arts and culture and at the same time offer a direct way of studying several important factors of a museum visit , namely to assess the effects of label characteristics on visitor visual behaviour .