A bust of Patrick Gordon in Yekaterinburg , Russia Patrick Leopold Gordon of Auchleuchries ( 31 March 1635 in Auchleuchries , Aberdeenshire , Scotland – 29 November 1699 in Moscow , Russia ) was a general and rear admiral in Russia , of Scottish origin . He was descended from a family of Aberdeenshire , holders of the small estate of Auchleuchries , near Ellon . The family was connected with the noble branch of Haddo . As a result of his distinguished service for Sweden , Poland and Russia he rose in ranks from trooper to full general , and became principal advisor and close friend of Tsar Peter the Great . Gordon assumed the additional Christian name of Leopold when confirmed as a Roman Catholic shortly before his death . Life Gordon was brought up and remained a lifelong Roman Catholic , at a time when the Church was being persecuted in Scotland , which had become Calvinist . After an education at the parish schools of Cruden and Ellon , at age of fifteen he entered the Jesuit college at Braunsberg , East Prussia , then part of Poland ; however , his character did not tolerate well the strict and sombre way of life at the school , and he soon decided to return home . He changed his mind , however , before re-embarking on the journey back to Scotland , and after journeying on foot in several parts of what is today Germany , in 1655 he enlisted at Hamburg into the military service of Sweden . In the course of the next five years he served alternately for Poland and Sweden and was taken prisoner by both . At the Battle of Chudnov in 1660 , Gordon was wounded . [ 1 ] Upon hearing of the Stuart restoration , Gordon left the Polish service , but found himself unable to obtain military employment in Scotland or England . [ 1 ] In 1661 , after further experiences as a soldier of fortune , he joined the Russian army under Tsar Aleksei I , and in 1665 was sent on a special mission to England . After his return he distinguished himself in several wars against the Turks and Tatars in southern Russia . Gordon disliked the Russian service , complaining of the corruption and venality of Russian officials , which left him , in his own words , " almost at wit s end with vexation " . [ 2 ] However , in recognition of his service he was promoted to major - general in 1678 , was appointed to the high command at Kiev in 1679 , and in 1683 was made lieutenant - general . He was not the only Scottish soldier in the Tsar 's service ; his fellow - Scots Paul Menzies and Alexander Livingston also found themselves in Russia fleeing religious intolerance or seeking adventure . Gordon visited England and Scotland in 1686 . In 1687 and 1689 he took part in expeditions against the Tatars in the Crimea , being made a full general . Later in 1689 a revolution broke out in Moscow , and with the troops under his command Gordon virtually decided events in favour of Peter the Great , [ 3 ] and against the Regent , Tsarevna Sophia Alekseyevna . Consequently , he was for the remainder of his life in high favour with the Tsar , who confided to him the command of his capital during his absence from Russia . In 1696 , Gordon 's design of a " moveable rampart " played a key role in helping the Russians take Azov . [ 3 ] Gordon 's alleged tomb at Vvedenskoye Cemetery in Moscow . One of Gordon 's greatest achievements was securing permission from the Tsars to establish the first Roman Catholic church and school in Muscovy , of which he remained the main benefactor , and headed the Catholic community in Russia until his death . For his services his second son James , brigadier of the Russian army , was created Count of the Holy Roman Empire in 1701 . The Tsar employed him in organizing his army according to the West European system ; and raised him to the rank of full general . At the end of his life the Tsar , who had visited Gordon frequently during his illness , was with him when he died , and with his own hands closed his eyes . Originally buried in the Foreign Quarter , his remains were reinterred at Azov in 1877 , with an inscription in German which mistakenly gives his rank as Oberst , Colonel . General Gordon left behind him a uniquely detailed diary of his life and times , written in English . This is preserved in manuscript in the Russian State Military Archive in Moscow . An incomplete and faulty German translation , edited by Dr Moritz Posselt ( Tagebuch des Generals Patrick Gordon ) was published , the first volume at Moscow in 1849 , the second at St Petersburg in 1851 , and the third at St Petersburg in 1853 ; and Passages from the Diary of General Patrick Gordon of Auchleuchries ( 1635 – 1699 ) , was printed , under the editorship of Joseph Robertson , for the Spalding Club , at Aberdeen , Scotland , 1859 . A new full scholarly edition of Gordon 's Diary in English was published by the Centre for Irish and Scottish Studies in Aberdeen ( 6 vols , 2009 - 2016 ) , as well as its translation into Russian . His daughter was married firstly to the German - Russian Colonel Rudolf Strasburgh , and then from 1699 or 1700 to his kinsman in the Russian service Alexander Gordon of Auchintoul , author of " The History of Peter the Great , Emperor of Russia " . She lived until 1739 . [ 4 ]