Matthew Goode Matthew William Goode ( born 3 April 1978 ) is an English character actor . He made his screen debut in 2002 with ABC 's TV film feature Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister . His breakthrough role was in the romantic comedy , Chasing Liberty ( 2004 ) , for which he received a nomination at Teen Choice Awards for Choice Breakout Movie Star - Male . He then appeared in a string of supporting roles in films like Woody Allen 's Match Point ( 2005 ) , the German - British romantic comedy Imagine Me and You ( 2006 ) , and the period drama Copying Beethoven ( 2006 ) . He 's garnered praise for his performance as Charles Ryder in Julian Jarrold ’s adaptation of Evelyn Waugh 's Brideshead Revisited ( 2008 ) , and as Ozymandias in the American neo - noir superhero film Watchmen ( 2009 ) , based on DC Comics ' limited series of the same name . He then starred in romantic comedy Leap Year ( 2010 ) and Australian drama Burning Man ( 2011 ) , the latter earning him a nomination for Best Actor at the Film Critics Circle of Australia Awards . Other notable film roles include The Lookout ( 2007 ) , A Single Man ( 2009 ) , Cemetery Junction ( 2010 ) , Stoker ( 2013 ) , Belle ( 2013 ) , The Imitation Game ( 2014 ) and Self/less ( 2015 ) . As well as appearing in films , Goode has appeared in numerous television shows . His most notable television roles include Henry Talbot in the final season of historical period drama Downton Abbey , and Finley " Finn " Polmar in the CBS legal drama The Good Wife . He also had a lead role in the critically acclaimed British mini-serial Dancing on the Edge , as music journalist Stanley Mitchell , for which he earned a nomination for Best Actor in a Miniseries or a Television Film at the Satellite Awards . In 2017 , Goode portrayed Antony Armstrong - Jones , 1st Earl of Snowdon in the Netflix biographical drama series The Crown , for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Guest Star in a Drama Series . [ 2 ] He currently stars in Sky One 's fantasy - romance series , A Discovery of Witches , as Professor Matthew Clairmont and is filming Matthew Vaughn 's Kingsman prequel , The King 's Man . Personal life Goode has been in a relationship with Sophie Dymoke since 2005 . They married in 2014 . [ 17 ] [ 18 ] [ 19 ] They have two daughters , Matilda Eve Goode [ 3 ] ( b. March 2009 ) and Teddie Eleanor Rose Goode ( b. September 2013 ) , and a son , Ralph Goode ( b. August 2015 ) . Career Goode played Peter Lynley , the brother of Inspector Lynley in the BBC production Inspector Lynley Mysteries : A Suitable Vengeance and co-starred in the TV film Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister , based on the Gregory Maguire novel of the same name and William Shakespeare 's play The Tempest . In 2004 , Goode made his American film debut opposite Mandy Moore in the romantic comedy Chasing Liberty . Early life Goode was born in Exeter , Devon . His father , Anthony , was a geologist and his mother , Jennifer , is a nurse and amateur theatre director . Goode is the youngest of five children with a brother , two half - brothers , and a half - sister , television presenter Sally Meen , from his mother 's previous marriage . He grew up in the village of Clyst St. Mary , near Exeter . [ 3 ] Goode was educated at Exeter School , an independent school in Exeter , Devon , [ 4 ] followed by the University of Birmingham and London 's Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art .