How to Tell a Joke Two Parts : Getting the Material Right Getting the Delivery Right From one - liners to classic three - liners to the one - minute gag you tell your friends , a good joke pleases everyone . Joke - telling is one of the best ways to ease tension , make a new friend , or light up a room . That is , of course , if you can get a laugh . Telling good jokes is an art that comes naturally to some people , but for others it takes practice and hard work . Part 1 of 2 : Getting the Material Right Know your audience . All aspects of the joke you tell , from the content to the length , need to be suited to your audience . What ’s funny to a group of 20 - year old college students may be very different from what makes your 70 - year old - uncle laugh ( then again , maybe not ) . Everyone ’s an individual , so there are no hard and fast rules . But , unless you personally know the members of your audience , here are some good rules of thumb to follow : elderly people wo n’t like crude jokes ; stay away from misogynist jokes if you ’ve got an audience full of women ; people of a specific ethnic or racial group wo n’t enjoy jokes making fun of their group ; and jokes requiring specialized knowledge ( of , for example , science or old movies ) will only be appreciated by people who possess that knowledge . The more you know about your audience the better you ’ll be able to tailor your jokes to them . Choose great material . You can find fodder lots of places — from your life , joke files online , by repurposing jokes you ’ve heard in the past , and so on . You may want to start your own joke file . You can write your jokes down on index cards to keep them handy or use a document file on your computer . [ 1 ] The latter option may allow for easier revision . Decide on a target . Every joke has a “ target , ” which is what the joke is about . It ’s important that the joke ’s target ( the most basic element of your material ) be suited to your audience . Make sure it ’s a target your audience will be interested in and something they ’re likely willing to laugh at . [ 2 ] For example , husbands are likely to laugh at jokes about wives and vice versa ; students will typically find jokes about school and teachers humorous . Have a realistic but exaggerated setup . The opening of the joke — or setup — should have a basis in the real world so your audience can relate to it , but it should also include exaggeration because this is what gives a joke its humorous edge . [ 3 ] Think of the setup as the foundation of a story . It ’s a fundamental part of the joke ; if you do n’t lay a good foundation here , then the punchline wo n’t make sense to the audience or they wo n’t find it humorous . Your setup needs to be both realistic and exaggerated in order to be funny — it ’s placing these two incongruous elements side by side that makes the joke funny . [ 4 ] The exaggeration can be slight or considerable — it just depends on the individual joke . Surprise with the punchline . The ending of the joke is obviously crucial . This is where the payoff comes in , what makes the joke succeed or fail . If you want to make the audience laugh , your punchline needs to be surprising . Some jokes also have what is called a tag or topper , which is an additional punchline . The tag builds on the original punchline or twists back on it in a surprising way . Make the joke your own . Lots of jokes rehash the same ground and sometimes they retell a story countless other jokes have told . For your joke to be funny , it has to surprise the audience in some way , which means it has to seem original or new . One way to personalize a joke is to change the ending . [ 5 ] Another option is to dress the joke up as a story about your own life . This will make a familiar joke unrecognizable . It may also make it particularly interesting if your audience is your friend(s) . [ 6 ] Know your material . Practicing your joke is crucial . You do n’t need to have it completely memorized — in fact , you " should n’t " memorize it — but you need to be really comfortable with it , so comfortable that you can continue on with telling it even if you get nervous or sidetracked , which is very possible once you ’re in front of an audience . Memorized jokes sound wooden , like they are being read off a script instead of relayed by a friend or entertainer . Good jokes have a lot of details and personality , so do n’t be afraid to embellish . [ 7 ] Try different things out and see what feels right , what sounds best . Do n’t use a joke until you ’re completely comfortable with it . Try recording your joke on a tape player and playing it back to yourself . If you hear a lot of awkward pauses or “ah”s or “um”s , your joke is n’t ready and you need to practice more . [ 8 ] You can also try practicing in front of a sympathetic friend or family member once you ’re ready for a “ real ” audience .