Perfect Teeth Steven wanted to be a dentist . It was pretty much the first thing he told us when , as first years , we were all bunched together in the unfamiliar dusty classroom . When , a couple of weeks later we were invited over to his house we saw that this was not an idle remark . Where our bedroom walls were decorated with posters of pop stars and footballers , Steven had diagrams setting out tooth implementations , anatomical drawings of the jaw with brightly coloured nerves , muscle , blood vessels , bones , and , of course , teeth . Where we had shelves of plastic dinosaurs and superhero figurines from cornflake boxes , Steven had plaster casts of jawbones , gums and teeth grinning down at us . The instruments were locked away in glass cabinets and only his parents had the key . “ They do n’t exactly encourage my interest , ” he shrugged . “ They sort of tolerate it . But Dad says they ’re a sort of collection , and too expensive for me to play with . ” Of course , we tried to pick the locks , but the spikes and saws and drillheads remained — tantalisingly — out of reach . We did n’t see Steven ’s interest as strange , well , not that much . We all had our own interests — drawing , electronics , collecting beer caps — that each appeared obscure to anyone else . DIY Dentistry was just something that had never crossed our horizon before . And if Steven did n’t see it as weird , or no weirder than Andy showing us his Eastern - Block beer caps all laid out neatly on cork boards with little hand - written labels , why should it bother us ? I suppose that , in our own way , we were all collectively strange . The bunch that no one picked for their side at football or hockey , and that was the glue that held us together . Besides , Steven had some really good stuff : sweets that stained your teeth bright red — well , technically , not your teeth , just the plaque , but the result was often the same . It took a few days good brushing to get it off . Well , most of it anyway . He had effervescent tablets that turned the canteen drinking water into that exact same pink mixture that the dentist gave you to rinse your mouth out after scraping around inside , and guaranteed to make the other kids splutter and spit it out when the taste slowly percolated through and met the memory of their last checkup . Then there was the event that became the rite of passage into our group of misfits and outcasts : making a mould of your teeth . It was inevitable that one of us , seeing the plaster casts on the shelf by Steven ’s bed would ask how they were done . It was just as inevitable that a few minutes later , Steven would be mixing up various powders and liquids , and pouring them into a horse - shoe shaped contraption . It was n’t dangerous . At least , I suppose so . It was vaguely uncomfortable , and appeared sufficiently disturbing that we all volunteered each other in turn until , at last , Andy said he was game . And we were off . The hardest part was probably to overcome the gagging reflex that set in when you bit down into the acrid resin jelly and it flowed out and up and around , over teeth , gums and tongue . Your nose filled with what you imagined were fumes from the warm paste . And you seemed to be suddenly drowning in your own saliva . Things generally got better when Steven reminded you that you could actually breathe , and swallow , normally . He watched the second hand trotting round the dial of his watch mouthing the quarters , before poking the setting goo to check its consistency . Then , when he gave you the nod , you tried to prise your jaws apart . As the seal around your gums and teeth was pretty solid , you thought it would never come off , as the others giggled at your expressions and grimaces . Steven jiggled the handle that stuck out beyond your front teeth like some metallic duck ’s bill , turning and twisting it most professionally and murmuring encouragements . And , then , with an awful sucking slurp , it came free . The initiated then revelled in retelling the gross sensation of having this evil - smelling plastic slug invade your mouth , while the others waited their turn with mixed trepidation and excitement . Raucous laughter greeted the suggestions of the other body parts that could receive the same treatment . The next part of the proceedings was less thrilling . Steven measured and mixed the plaster of Paris and prepared for the cast by using a bright blue putty to build up the form of the jaw , and shoring up gaps and holes . It get even less exciting when he said we ’d have to wait an hour while the plaster set real solid . But the next time we visited his room we got to marvel at our toothy grins labelled and lined up on the shelf . We were all perfectly happy with the result , even wanting one as a trophy until Steven passed an expert eye over them , pointing out here a gap , here a filling , and there a completely misaligned incisor . We were , he told us , mediocre specimens for his collection . It did n’t matter . We were all friends , a group bonded by the common experience of being able to see our teeth on Steven ’s shelf .