Hey what 's up guys ? Welcome back to my channel or welcome if you 're new . Today I 'm doing another college day in my life . And I just left Starbucks , do n't mind what I look like . I literally just pretty much woke up and left this morning . I 'm starting the review for all the chapters for my final exam , and it is a lot of information so I already planned on getting up early today and going . And then I 'm gon na do the same thing tomorrow . I basically like created a digital calendar where I 'm gon na go over each of the chapters , just because I only have one week left to study . I 'm back home now , and I basically just typed up a little calendar laying out the chapters that I have left to review before Tuesday . That 's my final list and I hate that , like , this week is our Thanksgiving break and then we literally come back Tuesday and take our final . So I 'm gon na be studying on Thanksgiving Day , Black Friday , and the whole weekend even though we 're going getting our Christmas tree I think on Saturday , and I I 'm not decorating I 'm not doing anything fun , like I have to study . I thought I would show you guys kind of how I 'm mapping this out , because it 's a really good tip if you have like a lot to do . So today I 'm doing female reproductive system , male reproductive system tomorrow . I work on Wednesday , I 'm going to go over chapter 29 fluid balance , chapter 28 so urinary system on the 29th . The 30th , Chapters 17 through 22 - yes that 's like six chapters or something . And then on Sunday , I 'll be doing chapters 23 through 27 and I just made this on my iPad and then printed it . I did not include my schedule for college algebra because I have a final on Thursday of next week for that . So I 'm going to go in with like a different color and add in the chapters I 'm gon na be studying for that , but I 'm super stressed . I bought these Vans from DSW . They are really cute . You guys know I have the white ones and I wear them all the time and these ones are just like black perforated Vans . I love them and they are definitely the right size because I have two other pairs of Vans that are this size , but one of these ones is like messed up or something . I think it 's like this part on the left foot because my foot feels super tight in only the left side , so something 's up because they 're both the right size but I do n't know . So I 'm gon na exchange them for another pair because something 's not right about that . Hey guys . So I just got finished at the library . I just sat in there for like an hour and a half straight and studied . I 'm really proud of myself and now I 'm about to go get some lunch , and go to DSW and see if I can exchange those Vans . So while I was in the library one of you guys came up to me , and said hi . I feel so bad because I was so in the zone that I did n't even get her name . But if you 're watching this , hi thank you so much for coming and saying hi to me you actually made my whole day . She said she watches my videos and loves them . And you guys are so sweet , I love making videos and it 's so nice to have that support . So if you do go to FGCU and you ever see me on campus , like feel free to say hi because you 'll make my day . I just got out of DSW , and I spent like 30 minutes in there because it was just such a process for them to do an exchange . And then she had to scan and go get the shoes and then she said they did n't have the size . So I ended up having to order them , but she said there was no way to do a direct exchange . So she had to give me a return and then re-ring it up . And oh my gosh I was literally in there for like 25 minutes all to just do a simple exchange for the exact same shoe . But it 's over now and they 're gon na send them to me in the mail . Hopefully they 'll be here in about a week . I 'm just kind of sad that they did n't have them in stock , so now I have to wait . But oh well it 's over with now , we 're gon na go get lunch .