2. GUJJOLAAY EEGIMAA , ITS SPEAKERS AND THEIR NEIGHBOURS This section briefly presents the Gújjolaay Eegimaa ( Eegimaa for short ; Ethnologue code : ISO 639-3 : bqj ) , its speakers and its varieties . We also discuss aspects of the contact situation of the Eegimaa language . This is important , because as we will show in § 6 below , some of the Eegimaa death prevention names and child - bearing names are given to Eegimaa people from other communities . Eegimaa is a Jóola language spoken in the Basse Casamance area of Southern Senegal by a population estimated to be between 7,000 ( Bassène , 2007 ) and 11,200 speakers ( Lewis , Simons , & Fennig , 2014 ) . Jóola languages are classified as members of Sapir ’s ( 1971 ) BAK group of Atlantic languages of the Niger Congo language phylum . Speakers of these languages are found in the Gambia , in the former Casamance region of Southern Senegal and in Guinea Bissau . The map in Figure 1 , taken from Ethnologue , presents the languages of Senegal . The arrow on the map points to the Eegimaa speaking area ( Bandial is the name used by Ethnologue for Eegimaa ) . Eegimaa is mainly spoken in Mof-Ávvi , a former kingdom of 10 villages located to the west of Ziguinchor , the capital city of the former administrative region of Casamance in the south of Senegal . Mof-Ávvi is a peninsula bordered by the Casamance River to the north , which separates it from the Jóola Búluf and Jóola Fogny areas , and to the east by the villages Brin and Djibonker , where the speakers of Kujireray and Baïnounk Gubëeher live . In the south , the river known as Kamobeul Bolon separates Mof-Ávvi from the Bayot speaking area , while the west side of Mof-Ávvi coincides with the homeland of the Jóola Kaasa Húluf and Jóola Kaasa Ésuulaaluʔ . The map in Figure 2 below , adapted from Palmeri and Gazio ( 1995 ) , shows a very approximate location of Mof-Ávvi in relation to other neighbouring speech communities . Some of these communities will be referred to in our discussion of death prevention names in § 6 . The Eegimaa spoken in Mof-Ávvi is known by several names given by speakers of neighbouring languages . For example , the name Kusiilay 1 ‘ the language of Essil ’ , is the name given by speakers of Kujireray to the Eegimaa language , because Essil , of which Bajjat was a district , is the village which has a border with their village . Endungo is the name given by Bayot speakers , but its meaning is not known . Kúlaakiay , ‘ the language of village of Seleki / Sállagi ’ , is the name given by Jóola Kaasa speakers who are more familiar with the village of Seleki / Sállagi ’ than all other villages of Mof-Ávvi . Finally , Banjal / Bandial ‘ the language of the village of Banjal ’ , the most popular of all those names , is the name given by the Jóola Búluf and Jóola Fogny speakers to Eegimaa people and their language , because people from the village of Banjal were the first to be in contact with them . Figure 1 . Map of Senegal ( courtesy of Google maps ) Figure 2 . Map of the Eegimaa speaking area Village names are written using their usual spelling . The Ethnologue language codes are provided for language varieties that have them . Language names are written following the recommendation for the transcription of national languages of Senegal , Decree 2005-981 . Names of the villages of Mof-Ávvi are written using the Eegimaa orthography and following the pronunciation of village names by native speakers . Jóola language varieties which are closely related to Eegimaa include Kujireray / Kuluunaay ( from the village of Brin with 76 % lexical similarity ) and Gufiñamay ( from the village of Afiniam with 74 % lexical similarity ( based on Lewis et al. , 2014 eds. ) ) . Gútaamay ( from the village of Butam ) , Gulapaoray ( from the village Djilapaor ) and Gusiilay ( ISO 639-3 : bsl ) from the village of Thionk Essil are also other languages related to Eegimaa . They are located north of the Casamance River in the Jóola Búluf area . There are also small migrant Eegimaa communities in villages like Djifanghor ( east of Ziguinchor ) and in Bourofaye ( south of Ziguinchor ) , where they cohabit with speakers of Baïnounk languages . Nowadays most Eegimaa speakers from Mof-Ávvi live outside their homeland , generally in urban areas like Ziguinchor and Dakar . Speakers of Eegimaa use the term Gújjolaay ( meaning Jóola ) to refer to their language when they speak to each other , but Eegimaa to distinguish their Jóola variety from that of other Jóola peoples . Eegimaa is an endangered language whose transmission to new generations has been declining significantly in the last decades . It is important to understand the contact situation of Eegimaa , because some of the ritual names analysed in this paper come from other languages or from neighbouring communities . These names are given either in Eegimaa or in a different language .