Cold , Hard Harvest : Making the Case for Frozen Produce ( Pandolfi ) By Nicco Pandolfi #argument , #proposal , #valuesbased , #descriptive , #systemanalysis , #advice , #pathos , #ethos , #logos , #kairos , #food “ Close - up of frozen peas ” by Marco Verch is licensed under CC BY 4.0 I recently acquired a hand - me - down chest freezer from a colleague , and have since been daydreaming about all the ways it is going to enhance my food life . From preserving berries and greens at peak freshness to caching away soups and stocks , the extra freezer space will help me spend my food dollars more strategically . With a little forethought , it provides an alternative to relying on distantly sourced , subpar produce in the bleak winter months . Frozen foods have long been marginalized by foodies as pale , second - rate substitutes for their fresh equivalents , but those sentiments are starting to shift . Here are a few pitches for ushering in a new age of appreciation for these undersung foot soldiers of the local food movement . The Food Waste Pitch A 2011 study by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization examining food waste in several industrialized countries found that 40 % of all food is wasted along its journey from producer to consumer . For fruits and vegetables that figure is closer to 52 % . What ’s more , close to half of that waste occurs before it even reaches the distributor , let alone the end - consumer . These are wild numbers when you consider what is lost : not widgets or knick knacks , but the stuff that sustains human life and health . The first logical front to attack this waste problem on is pre-season crop planning . When there are established outlets for small - batch ( i.e. 1,000 lb rather than 10,000 lb ) freezing , producers can look at historical data and estimate a certain percentage of projected yield that – either because of quality or short shelf life – will not sell on the fresh market . Growers can then make arrangements with regional processors for this portion of the crop to be frozen , locking in a fair price ahead of time without the urgent pressure to move perishable inventory mid-season . In this way , farmers can turn potential waste into nutritious and saleable food . The “ Slow Money ” Pitch Our economic system is not set up to make capital readily available to small farms and food businesses , which are often perceived as risky ventures . If we wish to safeguard sources of healthy food and ensure conscientious land stewardship , we need to create a framework for directing resources to the next generation of farmers and food innovators . There is a well - documented multiplier effect that kicks in when dollars are spent at small independent businesses rather than national or transnational chains , with the net result that two to three times more of this “ slow money ” stays in local circulation . Enfranchising frozen foods as bona fide culinary players in the regional foodshed expands opportunities for small and mid-size growers , offering them outlets for far more food than they can sell fresh . Tapping into the frozen market can create new revenue streams , allowing producers to re-invest in farm infrastructure that will help them capture more of the existing harvest and even grow their production to meet new demand . Moreover , as chefs give frozen foods a second chance , they rely less on the Just - In - Time inventory model touted by broadline distributors and can begin to redesign their kitchen spaces to accommodate more frozen storage . The Regional Food Security Pitch Most dollars we spend immediately subdivide into pennies that scatter all over the world . Sheer geography blinds us to the real human , environmental and social consequences of our economic choices . Nowhere is this truer than in the food world . Only by sourcing from local producers can we witness the impacts of our food choices and vote with our dollars for best practices that create a foundation for lasting regional food security . By food security I mean not simply access to calories , but community - wide access to healthy , real food from trusted producers who belong to the same community as the eaters they are feeding . There is an emerging scientific consensus that extreme weather events are on the rise , and such events can impact regional infrastructure for transporting food goods . Major flooding , winter storms and other natural disasters can create serious obstacles for both shipping out and bringing in food . Despite the temporary nature of these phenomena and the damage they cause , a pinch in the food supply has immediate effects on a community . More importantly , access to good food should be a basic right and its absence is linked to other types of disenfranchisement , as the plight of many food deserts shows . Freezing and storing the local harvest is one way to establish reserves of good food in the interest of community resilience and improving food access for all . The Quality Pitch To be sure , none of these pitches will sway anyone who thinks they are just window dressing designed to make them forget the reason they spurned frozen foods in the first place : a nagging sense that they are weak stand-ins for their fresh counterparts . Fortunately , there is growing evidence to the contrary , as frozen foods are gaining credence and approval in the realms of both flavor and nutrition . Despite their long - standing stigma , frozen foods are shedding their bad reputation as eaters and chefs make increasingly complex decisions about where they get their food . In a 2014 survey of food industry professionals , 75 % of respondents believed there are unnecessary negative connotations attached to frozen food , a staggering 60 % increase from an earlier version of the survey conducted just three years prior . Such a precipitous shift in industry opinion indicates that this is more than just a fringe idea . According to several recent studies frozen fruits and vegetables have equal or greater nutritional value than their fresh cousins . This is in large part because fresh produce has been shown to decline in nutrients the longer it sits between harvesting and eating , whereas frozen produce stops its nutritive shot clock the moment its temperature drops . Hence the popularity of the term “ fresh frozen , ” which conveys a useful message despite its ubiquitousness as fodder for claim - tastical food marketing campaigns . Bringing it back home If any of these pitches resonate with you , we are fortunate to have some great options for frozen local produce in northwest Michigan . One is Goodwill Industries ’ Farm to Freezer project , a job training program that teaches kitchen skills by freezing small batches of local produce . They carry a wide range of fruits and vegetables , which are available at many area grocers . Oryana Natural Foods Co - Op recently partnered with Farm to Freezer and Cherry Capital Foods to pack and distribute a line of Fair Harvest berries , starting with organic strawberries grown at Ware Farm in Benzie County . Some area CSAs , such as Providence Farm in Central Lake , even offer frozen Michigan fruit as an optional add - on to members ’ shares . As we weather the harsh realities of a Michigan winter , here ’s to taking some time to honor the freezer and carve out a more respectable place for it in our foodshed .