Understand Due to its remarkable biodiversity , with over a third of the local plant species found nowhere else , Socotra has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site . With over 40,000 inhabitants , though , it 's not just a nature reserve . The Island is new to tourism , so if you are looking for a luxurious vacation this is not the right destination . However , Socotra is a perfect destination for the adventurous and nature loving travelers . Socotra takes pride in their eco - tourism and values their spectacular plant and wildlife that may sometimes be only found on this island . Although the lodging and facilities may not be the same as more modern and developed locations , Socotra is a beautiful and magnificent destination choice . Great care is shown to both guests and the environment . Socotra is an eco - tourism system with limited infrastructure and new to the international tourist market , and therefore the hotel accommodations are not quite like other destinations . However there are four hotels in Hadibo : Taj Socotra Hotel , Hafijj Hotel , Socotra Hotel , and Summer land Hotel . These hotels may not be the most luxerious , but they do provide air - conditionting , televisions , and refrigerators in all of the rooms . Most of the rooms at these hotels have their own bathroom , but there are a few rooms at the Hafijj Hotel and Socotra Hotel that must share bathrooms . Fortunately , there is a restaurant in each of the hotels with simple yet delicious cuisine . Considering Socotra is a fairly new eco - tourism destination , their facilities are decent . In addition , there is also another hotel at the airport as well as multiple guest houses around the island . The most popular lodging is actually camping on the beaches . There are several campsites that allow tourists to barbeque on the beach with beautiful mountain views in the background . Tourists can choose to purchase camping tour packages which include a driver or guide that will show tourists around the beaches as well as provide meals during their stay . It is a fantastic way to enjoy the beauty and wildlife of the island . A runway that provides fairly regular airline transportation was only constructed in 1999 . Like everything else , infrastructure and transportation has only just begun in recent years . There are also plans for new harbor facilities that will allow fisherman to sell and catch more easily and make importing food and fuel simpler . In addition , there are also two information centers located at the airport and Hadibo . When to go : Climate is an important consideration . And this depends on your interest . Nature enthusiasts should go from early October to late April . The monsoon occurs in July till mid-August ( during July in the south east and south west of the island , wind surfing activity can be arranged ) . Generally , wildlife and natural viewing is best from the end of January through May . Get in By plane Dixam , in the centre of the island There are flights from Sana'a via Al Mukalla . Yemenia Airlines offers one flight per week on Thursday morning . Felix Airways offers two flights per week on Wednesday afternoon and Saturday morning . Flight durations are almost three hours . There are also flights from Sharjah via Al Mukalla . Get around There is a public bus from the airport to Hadibo and from Hadibo to Qalansia . Beside these two buses , there is no public transport , but car rental with driver is available . There is a lot of walking and hiking along with camel back rides available . See Socotra is considered the jewel of biodiversity in the Arabian Sea . Although the region is small , it is characterized by unique land and marine biodiversity . The interior of the island is dominated by the beautiful and green Hagghier mountains and limestone plateau . While on the outer coastline , breathtaking natural beaches have pure white sand dunes and palm trees . Socotra Island is very rich and is home to many rare spectacular species of reefs , fish , birds , plants , and trees which are not found anywhere else in the world . The limestone plateau and the Hagghier Mountains are the richest areas for endemic plant species , but endemics are found throughout the island in every type of vegetation . One of the most famous plants is the dragon 's blood tree “ dracaena cinnabara ” which exists only on Socotra and nowhere else on the Earth . The tree got its name because if any damage is made to the bark then a dark red liquid oozes out . The dragon 's blood tree thrives in Socotra 's arid climate There is also the Desert Rose ( adenium obesium ) which looks like a blooming elephant leg . Also found in Socotra 's landscape is the ever - strange and extremely rare Cucumber Tree . In addition there are over 120 species of birds and about 190 species of butterflies . There is so much beauty all around the island , it is difficult not the appreciate to magnificent scenery and wildlife .