What 's up YouTube ? So we are going to do a week of me vlogging . It 's kind of an interesting week . I bounced around here and there , so I have to kind of show you guys around and show you what it 's all about , and today I 'm on general nuclear medicine , so let 's start the day . So like I said , I 'm on my general nuclear medicine rotation this week . I get switched around -- moved around a few times to cover some residents who are on vacation , so I 'll be at other spots later this week . So so far this morning I 've just read a few studies ( it 's a little slow in the morning ) of general nuclear medicine because a lot of stuff takes time for the radio tracers to go into the body or the specific organ we are targeting , so we have to wait a little bit in the morning . So I 've done three lymphoscintigraphies . For lymphoscintigraphies we basically inject technetium in skin surrounding a melanoma and after we inject we wait about 15 - 20 minutes , maybe up to an hour , and wait for that radio tracer to travel to the closest lymph node which we would call the sentinel lymph node . What we do is we mark it under our cameras and then the patient will go up to the OR , have the melanoma , a wide excision of the melanoma , and then they will try to find the lymph node that we marked and take that one out as well to make sure there 's no metastasis . So I 've done three of those this morning . I will read a few more scans coming up here shortly and just trying to tie up some loose ends before I go to conference . I 'll check back in afterwards . Ah , the sun feels so good on the face . I 'm officially done . It is about 4:00 p.m. We get to head home early today because we finished off the scans , and I 'm gon na go home and work out because I was too lazy to do it this morning because for some reason I was tired from having a weekend off , which makes no sense . But I 'm gon na go work out , cook something for dinner and do this all over again tomorrow . We 're on a different rotation tomorrow so stay tuned to find out which one . Alright it is day two . It is Tuesday and today I got pulled to ultrasound . Yes , I do n't know why I got pulled on today , but I did , so probably just sit in there , read some ultrasounds and get out early . I need to film another YouTube video . Alright so I 've been here just crushing ultrasounds , and today I 've been feeling a little under the weather so I 've been , like , yeah , I 've been like crushing these all day today and then I 'll show you what else I 've been . I picked these up when I was in Amsterdam for ... I got sick when I was on Croatia for vacation . I have no idea what it says , but I think they 're cough drops , so if anybody knows what this says let me know . But I 'm pretty sure it 's just cough drops with some vitamin C in it . So this is what I have been doing all day is crushing ultrasounds and having Dutch cough drops . So if anybody speaks Dutch tell me what that means . Oh and PS , I usually try to avoid taking medicines that I ca n't read the name of but I had someone help me at the pharmacy in the airport . She spoke a little bit of English and I think those are actually cough drops , so , that 's the only reason I 'm still eating them today . You can tell by my voice it 's a little on the sore side today so hopefully I get better because , I have n't told you guys yet , but I 'm going somewhere this weekend and it 's gon na be fun . Now it 's time to get back to work . So I 'm officially going home right now . Yeah , normally I would go home and work out , especially since it 's , like , a beautiful day I would probably go running . But since I feel kind of crappy today I 'm just going to go home , hang out , rest ( ambulance was a little loud sorry ) . So I 'm probably just gon na go home and rest and I have to get my hair cut today for my big trip coming up . But you still do n't know where I 'm going . But yeah that 's pretty much it , hope you guys do n't mind this kind of like random vlog that I 'm doing , but I just wanted to show you guys kind of loosely like how a week is and the life of a radiology resident . So hopefully you guys find it somewhat interesting , and if you do I 'll keep doing it . So heading home now .