What is up guys ? Kharma Medic here and welcome back to another dose . So in today 's video , I 'm finally gon na be doing a room tour . I know this is something that you guys have requested for a very long time , and after two and a half years of living here , I finally feel like I 've made it my own and decorated it how I want , and I 'm ready to show it to you guys . Alright so let 's start off with the bed and the couch area . Honestly , if I was redoing this from the beginning , I would have really liked to have a double bed in this room , but , unfortunately , with the space as you can probably see from that wall there till the door , it 's basically just enough to fit a bed and a couch , and this is my couch over here . I 've recently changed it , and if you 've been following my channel for a long time , then you 'll know I 'm really proud of how I color match the pictures on the wall over here with sort of the gray and yellow vibe , the gray and yellow cushions . This couch is also quite big , it fits three people quite comfortably , and if I have family or friends staying over , it opens up into a full double bed . This coffee table over here , it 's glass and has two levels , so it 's really good when we have multiple friends over , and we have lots of food to put on the table , or if we 're playing board games , we can have people sit around it , and still have a lot of space to lay everything out . So there 's nothing too special about the bed itself , but it does have a very important function , which , it has a lot of storage . So down here is basically where I keep everything that I ca n't really keep in my room , because there 's not enough space . I 've got an ironing board , all of my suitcases , socks , clothes that I do n't wear that often , anything that I need for fixing the house like screwdrivers , drills , nails , all these things that I definitely would n't want to have laid out in my room , but I still need somewhere in the house . I love that this room has floor - to - ceiling windows as well , it really lets the light come in , especially in the summer time . I know London does n't have that much light , but I 'll take as much as I can , and there 's also a small balcony out here , which is fairly rare for London . We have two chairs where we can sit down and sort of enjoy the weather when it is a little bit better , um but now it 's really cold so just gon na close it . And then a little behind the scenes that you probably will never see again in a video is that down here I keep all of the filming gear that does n't really fit anywhere else in the room : two sets of tripods , I also have a c - stand . Okay next to my bed , I 've got the radio alarm clock , and this has actually changed my life . It makes waking up in the morning and getting out of bed at 6:00 a.m. when it 's pitch black outside so much easier when you 're waking up really early . It 's so much better to wake up to the sound of somebody talking to you : your favorite radio station , some music , whatever , instead of that classic iPhone alarm , " ba , ba , ba . " Over here on the wall , these are posters that I actually bought back in 2013 in my first year of university in Toronto , and I really really liked them so I 've kept them around . Also I 'm really proud that I managed to put them up all by myself , they look quite neat , and I feel like they 're equally spaced , so I 'm really proud of how they turned out .