How to Play Muggle Quidditch In the Harry Potter series written by JK Rowling the main wizarding sport is Quidditch . However you do n't have to have magical powers to play . There are many different ways of playing Quidditch , but the most commonly used set of rules are those given by the International Quidditch Association ( which can be found here ) . In the past Muggle Quidditch has mainly been played at colleges in the US , but over the last few years there has been a dramatic rise in the number of community teams . Quidditch has also spread outside of America and is now played on 5 continents . Steps Gather all needed materials and players ( see Things You 'll Need section below ) . Know that all players can play while riding a broom . Brooms can be a hindrance however , so feel free to not use brooms . Place the quaffle and three bludgers in the middle of the field . Ideally the quaffle and bludgers should be slightly deflated so that they are easier to throw and catch . Start the game . Both teams start from the edges and attempt to obtain the quaffle and bludgers . Follow your duty depending what type of player you are : Chasers try to score by throwing the quaffle into one of the three goal hoops . Each score is worth 10 points . Beaters try to peg players with their bludger . If a player is pegged they have to stop what they 're doing and pay a penalty ; i.e. ( drop the quaffle in the case of a chaser ) and run back to and touch their goal post or alternatively sit down for 10 seconds . Keepers guard the goal posts at each end and attempt to block chasers ' attempts at scoring . If Keeper is close to their hoops they are safe from being hit by bludgers . Seekers try to tackle the snitch ( a person ) or obtain an object attached to the snitch such as a sock or flag . You can establish you own rules as to how a player catches the snitch . A common way to play is to make the snitch a person , and give the snitch a head start to run and hide in defined boundaries . Then the seekers search for the snitch , and attempt to tag the player . Other methods , such as the method adopted in 2005 , makes the snitch a tennis ball in a sock , hanging out of the running shorts of the snitch runner . Regardless of method , the winning seeker wins 30 points for his or her team , unlike the books , in which the snitch is worth 150 points . The creators of Muggle Quidditch thought that it was worth too many points so changed the value of the snitch for muggle Quidditch . The snitch , generally a track runner , runs around ( usually the boundaries ) trying to evade the seekers . The referee should ensure that rules are being followed . They also keep track of the score . Play the game ! The object of the game is to score the most points and the game ends when the seeker snatches the snitch . Feel free to alter the game rules . See the Tips section for suggestions . Video How to Play a Real - Life Game of Quidditch You do n't need flying broomsticks or magic balls to play this version of the game - it 's tailor - made for muggles like us . This video shows a more realistic approach to playing Quidditch . Tips Alternatively the snitch can be a small yellow ball ( tennis balls work great ) that is hidden before the game starts by a bystander or referee . Establish boundaries and have the seekers look for the snitch . Beaters can try hitting the bludgers around in the air with a shortened hockey sticks or a short bat . They could also use regular - length hockey sticks to hit bludgers ( perhaps wiffle balls ) on the ground . The simplest way is to just peg players by throwing dodge balls . It may be easier to play without brooms ( but also less fun ! ) . Remember that the snitch runner , if you choose to use one , is not an actual player in the game , therefore , not bound by any of the rules . If desired , the snitch is able to do whatever he or she wants to avoid capture . See How to Be a Snitch in Quidditch for more information . You can play water quidditch in a pool . Almost all the same rules apply . Have someone throw something ( the snitch ) on a line into the pool at regular intervals . They can even use fake snitches . You can buy authentic looking brooms to make the game more realistic . There is a very large Quidditch community , have a look at the IQA website to find teams near you . One variation is Quarter Snitch Quidditch . Find a quarter or another small coin . Have both of the teams turn around and have the referee throw it into the grass or pitch while the teams are n't looking . Play while the seekers look for the snitch . Another variation is where the referee places the snitch somewhere in the field ( in this case it 's a small ball ) . The seeker has to find the snitch blindfolded , relying only on the coach 's instructions , while the game is still on . Warnings Stay hydrated and exercise wisely . A ball flying in the air can hurt . If you 're playing quidditch you 're probably just having fun so play nicely . Things You 'll Need 15 players 14 brooms Field ( or big backyard ) 3 goal hoops per team Referee ( optional ) Color coded shirts or capes for houses , black for referee 3 Bludgers ( dodge balls , water balloons , wiffle balls etc. ) 1 Quaffle ( volleyball , Frisbee , soccer ball , etc. ) 1 Snitch ( person ) Each team is composed of : 3 Chasers 2 Beaters 1 Keeper 1 Seeker