What the Moon Brings I hate the moon - I am afraid of it - for when it shines on certain scenes familiar and loved it sometimes makes them unfamiliar and hideous . It was in the spectral summer when the moon shone down on the old garden where I wandered ; the spectral summer of narcotic flowers and humid seas of foliage that bring wild and many - coloured dreams . And as I walked by the shallow crystal stream I saw unwonted ripples tipped with yellow light , as if those placid waters were drawn on in resistless currents to strange oceans that are not in the world . Silent and sparkling , bright and baleful , those moon - cursed waters hurried I knew not whither ; whilst from the embowered banks white lotos - blossoms fluttered one by one in the opiate night - wind and dropped despairingly into the stream , swirling away horribly under the arched , carven bridge , and staring back with the sinister resignation of calm , dead faces . And as I ran along the shore , crushing sleeping flowers with heedless feet and maddened ever by the fear of unknown things and the lure of the dead faces , I saw that the garden had no end under that moon ; for where by day the walls were , there stretched now only new vistas of trees and paths , flowers and shrubs , stone idols and pagodas , and bendings of the yellow - litten stream past grassy banks and under grotesque bridges of marble . And the lips of the dead lotos - faces whispered sadly , and bade me follow , nor did I cease my steps till the stream became a river , and joined amidst marshes of swaying reeds and beaches of gleaming sand the shore of a vast and nameless sea . Upon that sea the hateful moon shone , and over its unvocal waves weird perfumes breeded . And as I saw therein the lotos - faces vanish , I longed for nets that I might capture them and learn from them the secrets which the moon had brought upon the night . But when that moon went over to the west and the still tide ebbed from the sullen shore , I saw in that light old spires that the waves almost uncovered , and white columns gay with festoons of green seaweed . And knowing that to this sunken place all the dead had come , I trembled and did not wish again to speak with the lotos - faces . Yet when I saw afar out in the sea a black condor descend from the sky to seek rest on a vast reef , I would fain have questioned him , and asked him of those whom I had known when they were alive . This I would have asked him had he not been so far away , but he was very far , and could not be seen at all when he drew nigh that gigantic reef . So I watched the tide go out under that sinking moon , and saw gleaming the spires , the towers , and the roofs of that dead , dripping city . And as I watched , my nostrils tried to close against the perfume - conquering stench of the world 's dead ; for truly , in this unplaced and forgotten spot had all the flesh of the churchyards gathered for puffy sea - worms to gnaw and glut upon . Over these horrors the evil moon now hung very low , but the puffy worms of the sea need no moon to feed by . And as I watched the ripples that told of the writhing of worms beneath , I felt a new chill from afar out whither the condor had flown , as if my flesh had caught a horror before my eyes had seen it . Nor had my flesh trembled without cause , for when I raised my eyes I saw that the waters had ebbed very low , shewing much of the vast reef whose rim I had seen before . And when I saw that the reef was but the black basalt crown of a shocking eikon whose monstrous forehead now shown in the dim moonlight and whose vile hooves must paw the hellish ooze miles below , I shrieked and shrieked lest the hidden face rise above the waters , and lest the hidden eyes look at me after the slinking away of that leering and treacherous yellow moon . And to escape this relentless thing I plunged gladly and unhesitantly into the stinking shallows where amidst weedy walls and sunken streets fat sea - worms feast upon the world 's dead .