Parents prosecuted after homeopathic treatment leads to daughter 's death Friday , May 8 , 2009 Thomas Sam , 42 , and his wife Manju Sam , 36 , from Sydney , Australia , are undergoing trial for manslaughter by gross negligence for the death of their nine - month - old child , Gloria . She died from infection caused by severe eczema after they shunned effective conventional medical treatments for homeopathy , a form of alternative medicine that has been described as pseudoscience . Articles in peer - reviewed academic journals including Social Science & Medicine have characterized homeopathy as a form of quackery . An example of severe eczema . Image : Jambula . Gloria developed severe eczema at the age of four months and the parents were advised to send the child to a skin specialist . Thomas Sam , a practising homeopath , instead decided to treat his daughter himself . His daughter 's condition deteriorated , to the point that the baby spent all her energy battling the infections caused by the constant breaking of the skin , leading to severe malnutrition and , eventually , her death . By the end , Gloria 's eczema was so severe that her skin broke every time her parents changed her clothes or nappy , and in the words of the Crown prosecutor , Mark Tedeschi , QC , " Gloria spent a lot of the last five months of her life crying , irritable , scratching and the only thing that gave her solace was to suck on her mother 's breast . " Gloria also became unable to move her legs . Mr. Tedeschi also told the court that , over the last five months of her life , " Gloria 's eczema played a devastating role in her overall health and it is asserted by the Crown that both her parents knew this and discussed it with each other . " However , despite their child 's severe illness , and her lack of improvement , the Sams continued to shun conventional medical treatment , instead seeking help from other homeopaths and naturopaths . Gloria temporarily improved during the rare times they used conventional treatments , but they soon dropped them in favour of homeopathy , and she consistently worsened . Allegedly , Thomas ' sister pleaded with him to send Gloria to a conventional medical doctor , but he replied " I am not able to do that " . The parents are also accused of putting their social life ahead of their child , taking her on a trip to India and leaving her to servants while embarking on a busy social schedule , and giving her homeopathic drops instead of using the prescription creams they had been given . Gloria was finally taken to the emergency department shortly before her death . By this time , " her skin was weeping , her body malnourished and her corneas melting " , according to the Sydney Morning Herald . Speaking in the parents ' defense , Tom Molomby , SC , said that , as the parents came from India , where homeopathy is in common use , they should be declared not guilty due to cultural differences . Homeopathy is a form of alternative medicine which treats patients with massively diluted forms of substances that , if given to a healthy person undiluted , would cause symptoms similar to the disease . Typical treatments take the dilutions , with ritualised shaking between each step of the dilution , past the level where any molecules of the original substance are likely to remain ; for homeopathic treatments to work , basic well - understood concepts in chemistry and physics would have to be wrong . There is no evidence that homeopathy is more effective than placebo for any condition .