Tools and Tasks By Anonymous " Andrew s clutch job " by Bob n Renee is licensed under CC BY 2.0 My town is losing a car repair shop . The gas station at the end of Main Street will continue to sell gas , but the garage attached to it is going to close . The mechanic , who has been there for twenty - five years , will have to find work elsewhere . He had a loyal following ; a friend told me he once opened early on a Sunday to fix her tire . The garage is n’t closing for lack of customers . Nor is it closing because of taxes , that ritual demon of the political Right . A major reason , the owner said , is technology , and the way manufacturers are making cars so complex . To fix them requires sophisticated computers that a small shop ca n’t afford . “ There is n’t a car from the ’70s or ’80s that we ca n’t work on , ” the owner told our local weekly . “ But we ’re not in the position to make the investment in all the electronics and computers . To make that transition would be cost prohibitive . ” He ’s not the only one . Independent repair shops are going out of business all over the country . In California , more than half the gas stations had repair shops as recently as ten years ago . Now about 15 % of them do . Part of that is because oil companies are forcing out independent owners and taking over the retail end themselves . ( Have you noticed that prices are rising ? ) But partly too it ’s because the local shops ca n’t repair the new computerized cars . This is a trend that bears more scrutiny than it has received . It goes to two of the central narratives of our economy — the conventional version at least . One is that virtue and hard work prevail , which in this case is not the case . Hard work and virtue have succumbed to corporate contrivance . You are shocked ? The other narrative is the one that casts technology as Savior . The word itself has become practically a synonym for “ future . ” Computers are portrayed as the ultimate instruments of democracy . They will put knowledge — and therefore power — on every desktop . They will cause hierarchies and bureaucracies to crumble . Every man and woman will be a king . “ While the Industrial Revolution herded people into gigantic social institutions — big corporations , big unions , big governments , ” wrote Newt Gingrich in his book To Renew America , “ the Information Revolution is breaking up these giants and leading us back to something that is — strangely enough — much more like de Tocqueville ’s 1830s America . ” Brother Newton is a busy man , and maybe he just did n’t have time to consider the complications . For one thing , there ’s the matter of agency . As David Noble observed in his book Forces of Production , technology is not an impersonal force . It does not have an inevitable evolutionary path . Technology is a projection of those who make it , including corporate interests and proprietary claims . This can lead to a lot of trouble . Noble looks in particular at the machine tool industry , and how it evolved to enable top - down management control instead of autonomy on the shop floor . The technology could have gone either way ; it was the corporate managers who made the call . Computers have followed a similar pattern . Potentially they can liberate the desktop , and sometimes do . But in practice they often do the opposite . Now the boss can monitor your every keystroke . At home corporations can plant little spies on your machine . The Feds can track your personal e-mail exchanges . You think the Department of Homeland Security might have a computer or two ? And so with the technology built into cars . It would seem possible to design it in a way that made cars simpler and less expensive to repair . I do n’t really know , but it does seem reasonable . The problem is , would it fit the business plans of the corporations that make the cars ? Why would General Motors want to put more capacity and control into the hands of independent garages like the one in my town ? Would n’t it want to lock a customer into its own repair and dealer network , much the way computer printer manufacturers try to lock us into their expensive cartridges ? That seems to be what ’s happening . Car repair used to be a knowledge commons , shared in driveways , urban curbsides , and voc. ed. classes . Get yourself some tools and you were ready to go for most routine repairs . The machines were open to the eye . There was little if any secret and proprietary code . Repair manuals could help with the more technical issues , but you ’d probably go to a shop for those anyway . [ ... ] I am not suggesting that we all go back to bamboo huts , though a few weeks might not be the worst thing now and then . I am just questioning the techno - romantics who think technology by its very nature is enlarging and fulfilling . Sometimes it does the opposite , and hollows us out . Adam Smith actually had a glimmer of this , regarding the effect of the division of labor upon the workers involved . As each task becomes more specialized , Smith noted , it engages less of the person . Narrow work leads to human atrophy ; it can make people “ as stupid and ignorant as it is possible for a human creature to become . ” ( Smith had a brooding cautionary side that is lacking among his acolytes today . ) What ’s happening now is bigger and more endemic . It affects people not just as employees but as “ consumers ” even more ( and consumption is the real work of our “ economy ” to begin with . ) This is a big topic , obviously , but a lot goes back to who is devising the technology and why . Open technologies and open systems are less inclined to the unvirtuous cycle than closed ones are . There ’s a built - in social dimension that engages us at more levels , as producers as well as just consumers . Open systems evolve to serve the needs of users rather than of those who seek to use the users for their own ends . Compare , for example , traditional fairy tales with the kiddy entertainment today that has embedded products such as candy bars and colas . When someone finally writes the sequel to The Wealth of Nations , open systems and decentralized technologies will be , I think , a central theme . Perhaps a working title could be From the Wealth of Nations to the Well - Being of the People Involved .