Introduction A fundamental tenet of linguistic science is that the sound of a word has a purely arbitrary connection to the word 's meaning [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] . Thus , the sound of the word dog in English is connected to the concept ‘ dog ’ by historical accident and not by any natural connection ; roughly the same concept is just as well denoted in French by chien , in German by hund , and in Japanese by inu . But it is not that a word can have just any vocal sound . While the possibility space for sound systems of the world 's language is enormous , any given language makes use of only a restricted portion of the possible sounds [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] . It follows from these two basic principles – the ‘ arbitrariness of the sign ’ , and the ‘ selectiveness of particular sound systems ’ – that the words that exist in the world 's languages should sound quite different from each other , and that the likelihood that there are universal words is extremely small . But in this study we present a striking exception to this otherwise robust rule . From a systematic comparison of 10 spoken languages from 5 continents we find evidence suggesting that a word like ‘ Huh ? ’ – used as a ‘ repair initiator ’ when , for example , one has not clearly heard what someone just said [ 5 ] , [ 6 ] – is a universal word . There are two distinct claims being made here : 1. that Huh ? is universal , and 2. that Huh ? is a word . In support of the first claim , we show that the similarities in form and function of an interjection with the specific function of repair initiation are very much greater across languages than chance coincidence would admit . In fact the variation in form in unrelated languages across the globe is about the same as the variation we find in the way any regular word ( e.g. , dog ) is pronounced across dialects of English . In support of the second claim , we show that Huh ? meets the criteria of a word in the sense of being a conventional lexical sign which must be learnt . Thus , in contrast to what has been presumed for interjections in general [ 7 ] , [ 8 ] and for huh ? in particular [ 9 ] , [ 10 ] , we find that this item is linguistic in nature rather than being a mere grunt or non-lexical sound . We show that the form is locally calibrated in ways that show it fitting within different language systems . Huh ? may be a non-prototypical word , but it is a word . Finally , we address the question of why all languages should have such a word and why its form should be so similar across languages . We observe that this item fulfils a crucial need shared by all languages – the efficient signalling of problems of hearing and understanding – and we propose that its form is constrained by selective pressures in a conversational environment that is essentially the same in all languages . Consider a case from English [ 10 ] : Extract 1 American English [ NB , 1:1:19 ] After speaker G makes a statement , speaker E utters the interjection huh ? . This is followed by a repetition of the original statement by G . The technical term for this type of sequence is “ open other - initiated repair ” : repair is initiated not by the speaker of the first turn but by the other participant ( “ other - initiated ” ) , and the repair initiator signals that there is a problem , but it leaves open what the problem is ( “ open ” ) [ 11 ] . The actual repair operation in response to this interjection is usually simply repetition , sometimes with slight modification . Extracts 2 and 3 show structurally identical sequences in two other languages : Siwu , a Kwa language spoken in Ghana , and Lao , a Tai - Kadai language spoken in Laos . Extract 2 Siwu ( Ghana ) [ Maize1_1017013 ] Extract 3 Lao ( Laos ) [ CONV_050815c_03.10 ] These examples show that it is possible to identify the same conversational structure in unrelated languages . Essentially , this method gives us a natural control over conversational data , making possible systematic comparison across languages [ 12 ] , [ 13 ] . Sequences of other - initiated repair have been identified in every spoken language investigated so far [ 14 ] , [ 15 ] , and as the examples show , the interjection in the pivotal turn can be remarkably similar . This leads to the question driving our study : is huh ? in this context a universal word ? By compiling data from published literature we found that in thirty - one languages around the world , the interjection for other - initiated repair appears to be strongly similar ( Figure 1 ) . However , written sources are rarely explicit about the precise form , meaning , and use of interjections . The most reliable way to study a conversational interjection is by examining cases of actual use . Therefore we collected data from recordings of naturally occurring informal conversations in a sample of 10 languages from 5 continents , varying fundamentally in terms of phonology , word structure , and grammar ( languages 1 – 10 in Figure 1 ) . For optimal comparability , we studied the exact same conversational environment across languages : that of other - initiated repair ( OIR ) , in which one participant produces a turn at talk , the other then signals some trouble with this turn , and finally the first produces a next turn which aims to solve the trouble , usually by means of repetition and / or modification . In some languages the interjection , or an item similar to it , was also found in other sequential environments , for instance to mark surprise or to pursue a response . Such alternative ( and probably derived ) uses provide insight in possible paths of semantic change , but we exclude them here to make sure we are comparing like with like .