Learning Objectives By the end of this section , you will be able to : Describe cognition Distinguish concepts and prototypes Explain the difference between natural and artificial concepts Imagine all of your thoughts as if they were physical entities , swirling rapidly inside your mind . How is it possible that the brain is able to move from one thought to the next in an organized , orderly fashion ? The brain is endlessly perceiving , processing , planning , organizing , and remembering — it is always active . Yet , you do n’t notice most of your brain ’s activity as you move throughout your daily routine . This is only one facet of the complex processes involved in cognition . Simply put , cognition is thinking , and it encompasses the processes associated with perception , knowledge , problem solving , judgment , language , and memory . Scientists who study cognition are searching for ways to understand how we integrate , organize , and utilize our conscious cognitive experiences without being aware of all of the unconscious work that our brains are doing ( for example , Kahneman , 2011 ) . Cognition Upon waking each morning , you begin thinking — contemplating the tasks that you must complete that day . In what order should you run your errands ? Should you go to the bank , the cleaners , or the grocery store first ? Can you get these things done before you head to class or will they need to wait until school is done ? These thoughts are one example of cognition at work . Exceptionally complex , cognition is an essential feature of human consciousness , yet not all aspects of cognition are consciously experienced . Cognitive psychology is the field of psychology dedicated to examining how people think . It attempts to explain how and why we think the way we do by studying the interactions among human thinking , emotion , creativity , language , and problem solving , in addition to other cognitive processes . Cognitive psychologists strive to determine and measure different types of intelligence , why some people are better at problem solving than others , and how emotional intelligence affects success in the workplace , among countless other topics . They also sometimes focus on how we organize thoughts and information gathered from our environments into meaningful categories of thought , which will be discussed later . Concepts and Prototypes The human nervous system is capable of handling endless streams of information . The senses serve as the interface between the mind and the external environment , receiving stimuli and translating it into nervous impulses that are transmitted to the brain . The brain then processes this information and uses the relevant pieces to create thoughts , which can then be expressed through language or stored in memory for future use . To make this process more complex , the brain does not gather information from external environments only . When thoughts are formed , the brain also pulls information from emotions and memories ( Figure 7.2 ) . Emotion and memory are powerful influences on both our thoughts and behaviors . Figure 7.2 Sensations and information are received by our brains , filtered through emotions and memories , and processed to become thoughts . In order to organize this staggering amount of information , the brain has developed a file cabinet of sorts in the mind . The different files stored in the file cabinet are called concepts . Concepts are categories or groupings of linguistic information , images , ideas , or memories , such as life experiences . Concepts are , in many ways , big ideas that are generated by observing details , and categorizing and combining these details into cognitive structures . You use concepts to see the relationships among the different elements of your experiences and to keep the information in your mind organized and accessible . Concepts are informed by our semantic memory ( you will learn more about semantic memory in a later chapter ) and are present in every aspect of our lives ; however , one of the easiest places to notice concepts is inside a classroom , where they are discussed explicitly . When you study United States history , for example , you learn about more than just individual events that have happened in America ’s past . You absorb a large quantity of information by listening to and participating in discussions , examining maps , and reading first - hand accounts of people ’s lives . Your brain analyzes these details and develops an overall understanding of American history . In the process , your brain gathers details that inform and refine your understanding of related concepts like democracy , power , and freedom . Concepts can be complex and abstract , like justice , or more concrete , like types of birds . In psychology , for example , Piaget ’s stages of development are abstract concepts . Some concepts , like tolerance , are agreed upon by many people , because they have been used in various ways over many years . Other concepts , like the characteristics of your ideal friend or your family ’s birthday traditions , are personal and individualized . In this way , concepts touch every aspect of our lives , from our many daily routines to the guiding principles behind the way governments function . Another technique used by your brain to organize information is the identification of prototypes for the concepts you have developed . A prototype is the best example or representation of a concept . For example , for the category of civil disobedience , your prototype could be Rosa Parks . Her peaceful resistance to segregation on a city bus in Montgomery , Alabama , is a recognizable example of civil disobedience . Or your prototype could be Mohandas Gandhi , sometimes called Mahatma Gandhi ( “ Mahatma ” is an honorific title ) ( Figure 7.3 ) . Figure 7.3 In 1930 , Mohandas Gandhi led a group in peaceful protest against a British tax on salt in India . Mohandas Gandhi served as a nonviolent force for independence for India while simultaneously demanding that Buddhist , Hindu , Muslim , and Christian leaders — both Indian and British — collaborate peacefully . Although he was not always successful in preventing violence around him , his life provides a steadfast example of the civil disobedience prototype ( Constitutional Rights Foundation , 2013 ) . Just as concepts can be abstract or concrete , we can make a distinction between concepts that are functions of our direct experience with the world and those that are more artificial in nature .