As the Western United States burns up with over seventy forest fires in thirteen states and Germany deals with the aftermath of devastating floods , the world 's richest man , not counting Vladimir Putin , rocketed himself up to outer space for ten minutes at a cost of two point five million dollars every 60 seconds . A Democracy Now ! Segment on Thursday looked at the irony and dangers of billionaires fighting to privatize and monopolize space infrastructure while the Earth burns due to the man made climate catastrophe . As an example of his utter lack of self - awareness , Bezos 's own comments , after returning from his space adventure , admitted that his wealth is created by not only his customers , but his workers . This , of course , reminds readers and listeners of the ProPublica story that exposed how little he and the billionaire class pay in taxes . They are all the undeserving recipients of corporate socialism , making their space tours . I 'm looking at you , Richard Branson . Just another taxpayer funded giveaway to the richest men among us . And so I reluctantly thank the goddess of irony . We live in a country where a living wage for all working men and women is somehow not affordable . But a man who pays almost nothing in taxes is free to go to outer space at the taxpayers ' expense . Yes , that 's on us , the little people . John 's up first out of Clifton Park , New York , and independent John , good morning . You 're on with David McIntosh of the Club for Growth . Yes , good morning . Thank you . For what C-Span does . Mr. McIntosh , my question to you is , how does the space programs by these various millionaire -- billionaires -- It shows the failure of trickle down economics upon which you base a lot of your , you know , your stances and everything . How is -- how is that putting these billions into space instead of improving the conditions of the workers that make these people the richest men on Earth ? You know , I 'd like a better understanding on , you know , you 're talking about welfare and everything else . Yet at the same token , you ignore these stances where these billionaires are pouring money into -- all this money into space . The only people who are able to fly with them are also billionaires and millionaires . Well , first of all , I 'm actually really happy that it 's not a government program where they 're forcing taxpayers to spend the billions of dollars on something like that . You know , my view , honestly , is if somebody 's been successful in creating a business and making money and the customers have rewarded them , so they 've become a billionaire , if they want to spend it on building a rocket to outer space , that 's their choice . If they want to spend it on building mansions , they can do that . I -- I do n't think it 's the right role of government to tell people how to spend their money . David McIntosh , the Club for Growth , can kid himself with his self - assurance , as he did on Washington Journal last Friday , July sixteenth , by believing that the space exploration Bezos partook in was privately funded . But everyone in my neighborhood pays a higher percentage of their income in taxes than he pays on the beyond exorbitant and exceedingly gratuitous wealth that he lives off of . Not to mention , The Hill Online newspaper reported in late May that a US competitiveness bill , then being debated on the Senate floor , included ten billion for Bezos 's own space exploration company , Blue Origin . This was also around the time Bezos had bought MGM for nine billion . So we 're expected to forklift over , as a simple dinner fork wo n't cut it , the billions needed for him , again , arguably the richest man on Earth , to acquire more wealth , and as the cherry on top , deliver him one billion more . According to the report published by ProPublica last month , the median American household brings in around seventy thousand a year and pays fourteen percent in federal income taxes . In short , Americans subsidized the fruits of Jeff Bezos ' midlife crisis . Credit to UK journalist Peter Ward for that spot on descriptor . I worry that we are getting closer and closer to the experience of the little people in the sci - fi film Elysium , starring Matt Damon . In the film , the rich , after exploiting the world to the point that it 's practically uninhabitable , have moved on to an artificial world , Elysium that might as well be on our moon . And those that remain on Earth , the rest of us , continue working in what could realistically be a future Amazon warehouse . Later in the Democracy Now ! segment , the broadcast aired parts of an MSNBC interview with Bezos , who , in completely out of touch fashion , adamantly expressed that we should preserve our , quote , beautiful gem , end quote , also known as Earth , by transporting polluting industries to outer space , something he acknowledged would take , quote , decades to achieve , end quote .