Hey it ’s Jackie and welcome back to my vlog channel . We are currently in the car yet again and we ’re driving to Alexander Springs . Of course we ’re doing another mermaid photo shoot . It ’s not quite summer but it feels like summer here and I never miss a year of mermaid content . This theme is a Grecian mermaid . I really wanted to do something with pearls and do an updo and then have really bronzy makeup . And the tail , we have a silicone tail this time , is very similar to this lip tone , and my friend Marianne is staying with us and I love her photography style and styling . So she actually made this kind of Grecian top , like , very quickly , and I ca n’t wait to see this location . It ’s gon na be beautiful . And then after that we are headed to Orlando , I ’m gon na see my parents and we ’re doing Harry Potter World . We had to go into this little corner store because um we had to pee and we had to get five dollars worth of stuff . Saw this place on the corner of the road . What is this ? We love tacky . This place is so cool . What ’s in there ? Doing some touch-ups before we head into the springs and I ’m using this really beautiful Mac blush , this is the shade Melon Pink . For eyes I ’ve been using the Dominique ‘ the Moment Palette ’ . I used this in my last video but instead of going with the blues I went with these shades here and I love these together . See if I can get you in here . Oh hey ! There ’s Marianne . I ’m gon na add some to my highlight . I ’m gon na go with these rounds under the lash line . Okay . Oh it ’s so pretty . Looks like a resort . Those are the bathrooms . Actually yes oh wow . I ’m easily impressed . I feel like we ’re at Mako Island . It is so green and the tail is kind of H2O-esque . Oh my god it ’s so peaceful . We ’re in Florida . Oh such a beautiful aerosol . There ’d be no poison ivy , right ? Yeah , maybe … I love how you have your , um – Okay ! What just happened ? Why are you not in – why are you not over there anymore ? I ran for my life because I heard a little chirping sound and we already saw the gator warning , so I was like – and threw the tail off , probably good . Sorry I did n’t get it on video . That sound ! Where you going – where are you going ? But yeah , we ’re packing up and we ’re headed to Orlando . Have anything to say ? You look like you were about to . It ’s a very – it was a bird or something , some sort of small – It was not a bird , it was a crocodile . We made it ! Oh no that ’s not going anywhere . Jump from one bed to the other , like a child . And we ’re doing Universal tomorrow . We are all so loopy but I think we are gon na watch a little bit of Harry Potter Good morning ! This is the Harry Potter World outfit of the day . We did not get up as early as we should have . Wow , what are you doing ? I booked the tickets for the wrong day and that was stressful , but I ended up getting them switched , and we finally made it . We ’re here ! Wow ! And welcome to Hogsmeade ! For the best experience get a park to park ticket so you can do both Hogsmeade and Diagon Alley . This was my favorite area in the park , maybe because it was n’t as crowded yet and the wand shop is so epic . Everything is really detailed and when you look up even on the way going into the shop there are owls that move up high . You know I got ta go with the kid . But there ’s so many pretty ones ! Marianne , which one are you going to get ? I do n’t know , I ’m looking at every single one ! It ’s a big choice . So we got our wands from the shop , and apparently they ’re interactive . We do n’t actually know what we ’re doing , but here is my wand . Cheers ! Cheers ! Try it out ! Oh yeah ! Oh my gosh ! Okay , we ’re trying . It ’s good , right ? Yeah ! This one ’s so pretty ! Oh you made it move ! Okay , how do you do it ? I kind of – I do the same motion . Oh okay , thank you ! Now we know . Look at this tea shop ! Sorry ! So we just went on at the Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey ride . You can see that Hogwarts right there . And it was so fun , like , I ’m not a rides person , but , um , it felt like you were flying . It was very magical . So , highly recommend going there . And the wait was n’t even that bad , so yeah . How did you like it ? I loved it . I was a little scared . Oh that is so fun ! How did you do that ? With the park to park ticket we took the train to Diagon Alley and for lunch we went to the Leaky Cauldron , which has a bunch of British themed food . I would say the food is like a 5 out of 10 . It was n’t amazing but it was a really cool spot .