Theodorus of Tabennese Theodorus of Tabennese ( c. 314 – 368 ) , also known as Abba Theodorus and Theodore the Sanctified was the spiritual successor to Pachomius and played a crucial role in preventing the first Christian cenobitic monastic federation from collapsing after the death of its founder . Icon of St. Theodorus of Tabennese Biography According to hagiography , Theodorus was born into a wealthy Christian family and was well educated from a young age . Early in life he denied the excesses of his parents , and at the age of fourteen joined a monastery in the diocese of Sne , near the modern town of Esna , Egypt . A brother from Theodorus ’ monastery stayed with Pachomius in Tabennese while traveling and preached of the virtues of the Koinonia upon his return to Sne . Praying and weeping , Theodorus became determined that his destiny lay with Pachomius . Although initially denied passage to Tabennese by a Pachomian monk due to his wealthy background , Theodorus opted to follow the visiting monk , and his persistence ( and lack of obedience ) paid off . He was welcomed by Pachomius upon his arrival , and quickly integrated into the community at Tabennese around 328 . Quickly becoming a favorite of Pachomius , Theodorus lived an enviably ascetic life in the monastery , and took on the title of the " brothers ’ comforter " . Theodorus asserted his influence openly ( which resulted in reprimands from Pachomius ) and generally maintained himself as a prominent figure at Tabennese for several years , despite never being given a position of power in the monastic hierarchy . Finally , Pachomius called on him to preach to the brothers despite his youth , and eventually appointed him steward of Tabennese after several new monasteries had been built . Retiring to the monastery of Phbow , Pachomius gave Theodorus complete control over Tabennese , though recalled him from the position after witnessing several monks under Theodorus ’ watch violating the monastic rules without reprimand . Having failed to prove his governing ability and once more in a position no higher than when he had entered the monastery , Theodorus became a personal assistant to Pachomius and remained relatively quiet for some years . Despite his clear potential and popularity , Pachomius refused to grant Theodorus any kind of authority ; though the old man 's failing health soon changed things forever . After Theodorus had been assisting Pachomius at Tabennese for several years following his demotion , Pachomius became very ill and seemed to be on the verge of death . Pachomius had not named a successor , and several brothers pleaded with Theodorus to assert himself as head of the Koinonia when the sickly man died . Despite the assertion that Theodorus apparently did not want the rank of a father or this world 's glory , he consented . Unfortunately for the would - be leader , Pachomius recovered , and upon hearing of Theodorus ’ decision , exiled the ambitious young man . After living a life of constant weeping and prayer in solitude , Pachomius forgave Theodorus and allowed him to live among the brothers once more . Normalcy returned , though never again would Pachomius fully trust his former protégé . In 348 Pachomius died , naming the brother Petronios as his successor rather than the clearly qualified Theodorus . The death of Petronios later that year would leave Apa Horsiesios in charge , and the popular Theodorus would retreat to the distant monastery of Phnoum . Although it seems Theodorus practiced complete submission to the new leader of the Koinonia , problems soon arose in several Pachomian monasteries that viewed Horsiesios as a weak leader . Refusing to work or communicate and demanding a new leader , many of the elder monks completely abandoned any notion of obedience to Horsiesios . The federation of monasteries was falling apart , and Theodorus rushed to Tabennese to placate the rebels . Soon after his arrival , Theodorus was the new de facto leader , though he claimed to be only acting on behalf of Horsiesios . For eighteen years Theodorus administered from Pachomius ’ old headquarters in Phbow , using techniques far more assertive than his predecessors , such as constantly shuffling the offices and locations of the most ambitious monks . Yet in spite of this somewhat unstable shifting , the Koinonia was ruled peacefully for nearly two decades , at which point Theodorus predicted he would soon die . Within a few months his prediction came true , and Apa Horsiesios once more took his place as the head of the communities in both title and authority . [ 1 ]