The Further Vision “ I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes with time travelling . And this time I was not seated properly in the saddle , but sideways and in an unstable fashion . For an indefinite time I clung to the machine as it swayed and vibrated , quite unheeding how I went , and when I brought myself to look at the dials again I was amazed to find where I had arrived . One dial records days , and another thousands of days , another millions of days , and another thousands of millions . Now , instead of reversing the levers , I had pulled them over so as to go forward with them , and when I came to look at these indicators I found that the thousands hand was sweeping round as fast as the seconds hand of a watch — into futurity . “ As I drove on , a peculiar change crept over the appearance of things . The palpitating greyness grew darker ; then — though I was still travelling with prodigious velocity — the blinking succession of day and night , which was usually indicative of a slower pace , returned , and grew more and more marked . This puzzled me very much at first . The alternations of night and day grew slower and slower , and so did the passage of the sun across the sky , until they seemed to stretch through centuries . At last a steady twilight brooded over the earth , a twilight only broken now and then when a comet glared across the darkling sky . The band of light that had indicated the sun had long since disappeared ; for the sun had ceased to set — it simply rose and fell in the west , and grew ever broader and more red . All trace of the moon had vanished . The circling of the stars , growing slower and slower , had given place to creeping points of light . At last , some time before I stopped , the sun , red and very large , halted motionless upon the horizon , a vast dome glowing with a dull heat , and now and then suffering a momentary extinction . At one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again , but it speedily reverted to its sullen red heat . I perceived by this slowing down of its rising and setting that the work of the tidal drag was done . The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun , even as in our own time the moon faces the earth . Very cautiously , for I remembered my former headlong fall , I began to reverse my motion . Slower and slower went the circling hands until the thousands one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a mere mist upon its scale . Still slower , until the dim outlines of a desolate beach grew visible . “ I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine , looking round . The sky was no longer blue . North - eastward it was inky black , and out of the blackness shone brightly and steadily the pale white stars . Overhead it was a deep Indian red and starless , and south - eastward it grew brighter to a glowing scarlet where , cut by the horizon , lay the huge hull of the sun , red and motionless . The rocks about me were of a harsh reddish colour , and all the trace of life that I could see at first was the intensely green vegetation that covered every projecting point on their south - eastern face . It was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss or on the lichen in caves : plants which like these grow in a perpetual twilight . “ The machine was standing on a sloping beach . The sea stretched away to the south - west , to rise into a sharp bright horizon against the wan sky . There were no breakers and no waves , for not a breath of wind was stirring . Only a slight oily swell rose and fell like a gentle breathing , and showed that the eternal sea was still moving and living . And along the margin where the water sometimes broke was a thick incrustation of salt — pink under the lurid sky . There was a sense of oppression in my head , and I noticed that I was breathing very fast . The sensation reminded me of my only experience of mountaineering , and from that I judged the air to be more rarefied than it is now . “ Far away up the desolate slope I heard a harsh scream , and saw a thing like a huge white butterfly go slanting and fluttering up into the sky and , circling , disappear over some low hillocks beyond . The sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself more firmly upon the machine . Looking round me again , I saw that , quite near , what I had taken to be a reddish mass of rock was moving slowly towards me . Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous crab - like creature . Can you imagine a crab as large as yonder table , with its many legs moving slowly and uncertainly , its big claws swaying , its long antennæ , like carters ’ whips , waving and feeling , and its stalked eyes gleaming at you on either side of its metallic front ? Its back was corrugated and ornamented with ungainly bosses , and a greenish incrustation blotched it here and there . I could see the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling as it moved .