Boom ! It 's like lipstick central . It 's actually pretty crazy in here . Eventually I actually — maybe we can check for this at Target . I actually want to get one of those acrylic things where the lipsticks can just stand up in it and it looks super neat . Like that 's definitely what I want . But I also need to clear a lot of these out because I know a lot of these lipsticks are at least over like two three years old and that 's like not okay . Alright so let 's have a quick look at this . My fancy lipsticks — I ca n't part with them yet . I just I literally ca n't so I 'm gon na keep those . Let 's see . Okay so this is a Pat McGrath lipstick . Oh my gosh . It 's like the most beautiful red lipstick . Look at this . Let me swatch it for you real quick , real quick . Mm ! Look at how beautiful this is . I feel like I do n't want to throw it away . But anyways , so on the bottom of this lipstick you can see where it says eighteen months is the shelf life so . Let me see if I can — Can you all see this ? I will definitely insert a little clip here that will show you what the shelf life symbol looks like on products . So you will find this on all your cosmetics , your makeup . It is usually on there . So when it says eighteen M that means that product , after eighteen months , is expired . I feel like this is not too far past eighteen months , and I mean look at the red . It 's beautiful , so I ca n't part with it . This is a problem . Oh my gosh . The doorbell rang . Excitement ! Who 's at the door Hershey ? Ah ! Alright . I 'll be right back . I got to get the door . Alright . Let 's get back into the spring cleaning . You 're gon na spring clean with me ? What a sweet baby . Yes you are ! Look at her . Guys I love her so much ! Hershey it 's your first vlog . You 're doing great . Ah ! Alright . Let 's get into this . See what else we got here . Okay Too Faced Melted Matte Liquid Lipstick . I also love this . I love this color . See what this says . This says twelve months . One hundred percent this is definitely definitely expired , but it 's just with lipsticks it 's kind of hard to tell . Like — like usually with foundations when it 's expired , you will see the oil separating and all that , but this just looks — it looks fine . Makes it hard to throw away , but I 'm gon na create like a little expired pile down here on the floor . Alright what is this ? Oh this is Ofra ! Oh my god I had this back in college is when I ordered this , which is probably around twenty sixteen . This is four years old . Everything has like rubbed off of it . This has one thousand percent got to go in the throw away pile . Oh it looks kind of dry and crusty too . Yeah no . Not a good look . Let 's throw this out . Go ahead and comment below . How many of you people actually knew that makeup expires ? Cuz I actually did not know and actually did n't realize what that symbol meant until I heard other people talking about it and I was like wait what ? . Next up we got Ashton Liquid Lipstick by Anastasia Beverly Hills . Six months ! You 're supposed to finish a whole liquid lipstick in six months . That is wild . I definitely had this for at least — at least four years cuz I definitely had this in college as well . Yeah that 's gon na have to go in the expired pile . So Dose of Colors definitely does not have an expiration date on their products . I do n't know if this means that they just do n't expire or I do n't know . I do n't know what that means . Okay . Let 's keep going . I 'm a just put all the Dose of Color in a separate pile cuz that 's kind of weird . I might need to research that a little bit . Oh ! Okay . Let me show you guys . That is an expired lipstick . Ew . Okay so the fancy lipsticks have a shelf life of twelve months , so one full year . I know I 've definitely had this over a year though . I think . Have I had this over a year ? My gosh it 's hard to think back . But yeah this just does not look good . That 's gon na have to go in the expired pile . Yikes ! This black is also not looking good . I feel like I 've only had the black since last year Halloween though . Or was it the Halloween before ? Guys this is harder than I thought . I ca n't remember when I bought things . It 's not looking good though . It 's all like super separated . I do n't like how that looks . Expired ! Oh so this is interesting . Black Up actually has twenty four months of shelf life for their lip pencils which is really really good . That 's two years . But is that actually good ? Does that mean that this is chocked full of preservatives ? That 's like not healthy for you ? I do n't know ! But I 've definitely had this for more than two years . Expired . This blue lipstick is definitely old . Definitely old . I do n't know if you can actually tell by looking at it but she 's old . Let 's see what the shelf life is . That 's interesting . The Urban Decay does not have a shelf life on the actual stick . So you know how lipsticks usually come in packaging ? It usually comes in that little box ? I 'm thinking that maybe Dose of Colors and Urban Decay have the shelf life printed on those boxes but who keeps their lipsticks in a box ? Like how do I know now if this is expired or not ? I 've definitely had this over two years though so I 'm just gon na go ahead and throw it in the expired pile . I feel like two years is kind of the limit that I 've seen so far . This has a shelf life of six months ! Expired . So this is the throw out slash expired pile . This is the I do n't know what to do with it pile , but I think these are all the Dose of Colors lipsticks that I know I 've had for at least over two years .