A relevant question to our concern might be , would this artistic excellence in the Chinese tradition be the same as beauty ? Arguably , beauty is regarded as the keyword in Western art tradition since antiquity . If we browse Chinese classical writings on art criticism , a striking difference manifests — there the category of mei or beauty does not have a dominant presence . For instance , among the 24 aesthetic categories of poetry listed by Sikong Tu 司空 图 ( 837 – 908 ) in his celebrated treatise ( Sikong n.d. ) , only three or four categories can be regarded as related to the Western notion of beauty . Moreover , according to Xu Hong ’s ( c. 1580 – 1660 ) Xishan Qinkuang 谿山 琴况 ( c. 1640 ) , the most influential treatise on the aesthetics of guqin ( Chinese zither ) music , the category of li ( pretty , beautiful ) is merely the 10th of the 24 aesthetic categories , and the top six were harmony , tranquillity , clarity , profundity , antiquity , subtlety . [ 38 ] In Chinese paintings , prominence was given to the categories such as shen ( spiritual ) and miao ( subtle ) before mei . Overall , one also finds that the comparison between the beautiful and the sublime — which defined the influential aesthetics of Edmund Burke ( 1729 – 1797 ) and Immanuel Kant , and consequently became an iconic discourse in Western aesthetics — is also missing in the Chinese history of aesthetics . To conclude , in a cross-cultural comparative context , it is fair to say that an inquiry on what makes an artwork beautiful may turn out to be even less productive than in the contemporary artworld . 38. 和 , 静 , 清 , 远 , 古 , 澹 ( Research Institute of Music 2010 , vol. 14 , 316 – 321 ) . CONTEMPORARY DISCOURSE : BRIEF REMARK The Hegelian definition of aesthetics as the philosophy of art that considers the issue of artistic beauty as its core concern is no more enchanting in our time . Many would agree that the question “ what makes an artwork beautiful ” plays a minor role in contemporary aesthetics and philosophy of art , where the question has been updated to “ what makes an artwork meaningful or valuable ? ” Two factors might contribute to this situation . Firstly , it is not a coincidence that the loss of interest in the inquiry into artistic beauty coincides with a sea change in the artworld , transformed by new art movements as well as struggles in defining art . Being beautiful is no longer a defining feature of art . Also , when the representationalism , the expression theories , formalism , neoformalism , aesthetic theories in defining art all fail to offer an account that is capable of coping with the dynamic scenes of the artworld , and when the anti-essentialist movement in philosophical aesthetics then paves a way to functionalism , institutionalism and various versions of historicism , the question of artistic beauty as such not only loses its limelight , but also is , to some extent , abandoned for its strong Hegelian colour . Now if “ art ” itself becomes an open concept or a socially , historically , culturally sensitive notion , then whatever makes an artwork beautiful is unlikely to be something homogeneous and unitary . Secondly , the inquiry into “ beauty ” experienced a shift of focus from the emphasis on aesthetic properties of the objects to the subjective experience involved in aesthetic appreciation . In other words , a shift from an inquiry about “ the beauty of object ” to the issue of “ the pleasure of beauty . ” The contemporary inquiry into beauty in general is often classified in light of the framework of realism vs non-realism . Realism regards artistic beauty as a property of artworks which is independent of the subject , while non-realism holds that artistic beauty is not an independent property of artworks . This shift has a long historical preparation , contributed especially by the British empiricists such as Francis Hutcheson ( 1694 – 1746 ) and David Hume ( 1711 – 1776 ) . Hutcheson thinks that beauty lies in both the object and the subject , and artistic beauty comes from the quality of “ uniformity amidst variety ” in the object and the involvement of an “ internal sense ” in the subject . [ 39 ] Hume argues that “ beauty is no quality in things themselves , ” but a “ sentiment ” in “ the mind that contemplates them ” and “ to seek the real beauty … is … fruitless . ” [ 40 ] In contemporary aesthetics , from the study of empathy to Freud ’s libido , to the evolutionary theory of beauty , to the focus on perception in aesthetic experience , more and more philosophers seek to answer the question of what makes an artwork beautiful in light of human physiology and psychology . For instance , the evolutionary theory regards artistic beauty as “ fitness signal ” that displays desirable personal qualities that strengthen reproductive advantage , and our pleasant feeling caused by something beautiful , like sexual pleasure , is engraved in our minds by the process of evolution , assisting us to make the “ the most adaptive decisions for survival and reproduction . ” [ 41 ] 39. “ The Figures which excite in us the Ideas of Beauty , seem to be those in which there is Uniformity amidst Variety ” ( § II , p. 28 ) . “ The internal Sense is , a passive Power of receiving Ideas of Beauty from all Objects in which there is Uniformity amidst Variety ” ( § VI , 67 ) . 40. “ Beauty is no quality in things themselves : it exists merely in the mind which contemplates them ; and each mind perceives a different beauty … every individual ought to acquiesce in his own sentiment , without pretending to regulate those of others . To seek the real beauty , or real deformity , is as fruitless an inquiry , as to pretend to ascertain the real sweet or real bitter ” ( Hume 1998 , 136 – 137 ) . 41. Denis Dutton ( 2010 ) provides such an account in his TED talk , “ A Darwinian Theory of Beauty . ”