Understand Some of the distinctive skyline of Downtown , including the Kaiser Building and the Cathedral of Christ the Light . Often overshadowed by San Francisco , its larger neighbor lying directly to the west , Oakland has in recent years began to step out from under the shadows , playing upon the beautiful highlights of its own and its rise as the multicultural " hipster ' city of the Bay Area . Since the 1960s , Oakland has been a hub of radical culture , and is the birthplace of both the Black Panther Party and the Hell 's Angels . Oakland 's history in the arts and entertainment arena is notable as well , as Oakland has nurtured or been a second home to novelists Gertrude Stein , Jack London , Amy Tan , and Maya Angelou ; actors Meryl Streep , Mark Hamill , Bruce Lee , and Tom Hanks ; architect Julia " Butterfly " Hill ; classical conductor Calvin Simmons ; rappers MC Hammer , 2Pac , Messy Marv , and several other notables in the liberal arts and sciences . Oakland as a city reflects the amazing diversity of its residents and long history . For many visitors , the first place they are likely to visit is Downtown , especially if they are in town on business , or simply do not know where to start . The center of transportation by BART and by bus is there , if one wants to branch out . And it is as simple as walking in a direction from there , for the first few neighborhoods , since Old Oakland is along 10th Street , just west of Broadway . Just east of Broadway and continuing north and south is Oakland 's famous Chinatown , and that to get the real essence of " Chinatown , " Oakland rather than San Francisco is your best bet . Many of the buildings and streets of Chinatown reflect the diverse nature of its history , in architecture and in the bilingual signs seen throughout the neighborhood . The curious traveler can venture to take a bus southwards along Broadway , and come to Jack London Square . The unlikely mixture of warehouses and very expensive restaurants and posh atmosphere alongside some of the landmarks of the city 's waterfront makes the Square an interesting place to visit and explore , even for locals . It 's the home of the USS Potomac and the site of the namesake author 's residence , still preserved and humbly standing not far from a saloon from the same era . Just west of Downtown and slightly north of the Financial District is Uptown . In the evening it buzzes with art galleries , theaters and residents and Bay Area visitors coming into the area to see concerts . A popular area on the weekend with a mixed vibe of hipster and hip hop . It 's a burgeoning neighborhood of performing arts ranging from nightclubs to music halls , avant - garde performance art , and even an improv theater company . Uptown also has some of the best in the city 's vintage architecture , like the Gothic Revival Cathedral Building and the Art Deco Fox and Paramount Theaters , as well as several restaurants . North Oakland is a sweeping term , referring to just about everywhere north of Uptown and Lake Merritt . Many of the neighborhoods are commercial centers and absolute heaven for foodies or those who seek quieter surroundings than the hustle and bustle of Downtown and Chinatown . Temescal is a neighborhood that lies north - northwest from Downtown , centered along the reach of Telegraph Avenue , at and near 51st Street . Until the 1960s , a dominantly Italian - American neighborhood , it is now a much more diversified neighborhood , home to many restaurants , including some of the city 's best Korean and Ethiopian establishments . Northeast of Temescal and near the Berkeley border lies Rockridge , a neighborhood mixed with family friendly and artistic vibes . It has lots of local boutiques and a diverse range of food at all prices and styles . Open - air markets , bookstores , and a BART station all its own make Rockridge another of many pleasant stops in North Oakland . South of Rockridge , and southeast of Temescal lies Piedmont Avenue , a street extending from Broadway near 34th and Hawthorne and an area with a group of hospitals on a hill ( Pill Hill ) up and through a neighborhood bordered on both sides by picturesque hills , houses and trees . Another of North Oakland 's group of foodie spots , home to the city 's single Michelin - rated restaurant and many others ; cafes , ice cream , coffee shops and pleasant walks complete the vision of this interesting and quiet neighborhood . East along I - 580 and not far from Piedmont Avenue are two neighborhoods separated by a couple of blocks . Grand Lake and Lakeshore both share a friendly , suburban sort of feel . The Grand Lake Theater stands at the entrance to the neighborhood that bears its name , a matter of a few hundred feet from Lakeshore Avenue – both are diverse neighborhoods no matter what your budget , be it burgers or sandwiches or a full romantic evening , either of these twin - sister neighborhoods will make a pleasant time , by day or night . West Oakland was once a burgeoning working - class neighborhood with its roots tracing as far back as the opening decades of the 19th century . It has seen a period of decline between the 1960s and the more recent past . Strangely , twice in its history the neighborhood has seen benefits from major earthquakes . After the 1906 earthquake , many San Franciscans relocated there , and the industrial development of the 20s and 30s saw its population in the hundreds of thousands . With Loma Prieta in 1989 , the effective barrier of the Cypress Street Overpass was destroyed , and the decades since have seen the rebuilding and refurbishing of many of the neighborhood 's original Victorian houses , and there is a burgeoning performing arts community growing near the center of the neighborhood . Though there are a few draws for the traveler , West Oakland is dominantly a very poor working - class residential neighborhood with a less than spectacular reputation .