Australian woman claims Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years Thursday , May 7 , 2015 Valeska Paris , an Australian woman and former Scientologist , has claimed that the Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years aboard the Scientology - owned cruise ship , Freewinds . The Church of Scientology 's cruise ship Freewinds in Bonaire . Paris was born in Switzerland but her parents moved her to the United Kingdom when she was six so they could be closer to the church 's headquarters . She joined the Sea Org aged 14 . In 1995 , at age seventeen , she was told to disconnect from her mother . Paris claims she was first sent to the ship aged eighteen for two weeks as a teenager but ended up spending twelve years there . Paris also claims that her passport was taken away from her and she was forced to work in the engine room . I was basically hauled in and told that my mum had attacked the church and that I needed to disconnect from her because she was suppressive . Valeska Paris I was basically hauled in and told that my mum had attacked the church and that I needed to disconnect from her because she was suppressive . Her mother had spoken out against Scientology on French television after her ex-husband and Paris 's father , Albert Jaquier , committed suicide after he lost his fortune to Scientology . Paris claims that she was kept at Flag Land Base in Clearwater , Florida until she was eighteen and then transferred to the Freewinds . On board the Freewinds , Paris claims that she was working from 6:00 am to midnight and due to lack of sleep ended up being a walking zombie . She also claims that in 1997 and 1998 , she was tasked with removal of asbestos from the ship . In 2007 , Paris left the ship after a confrontation with the ship 's management . She was eventually sent to Rehabilitation Project Force in Sydney , which the Church describes as a religious retreat , but critics charge is a forced work camp . Here , she met her future husband and subsequently left the church . In a statement to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation , the Church denied these allegations : She certainly was n't ' forced ' to be there . She was also never forced to perform labour in the engine room . They also claimed Paris was a volunteer and claim she has a vested interest for misrepresenting her experiences with the Church . The Church also claims that Paris not having her passport was maritime procedure .