CONGRESSMAN 'S REPORT JAMES ABOUREZK 2D DISTRICT , SOUTH DAKOTA 508 CANNON HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING TELEPHONE : ( 202 ) 225-5185 AN OPEN LETTER TO THE PEOPLE OF THE FLOOD AREA Dear Friends : This has been a sad time in my life , and in the lives of all of us . We have lost much -- too much , really , to list . The task that lies ahead -- to put Rapid City and the area back together -- will not be done for years . It will be tough . But it must be done . I think of the letter from a lady which said , " It is only as the days pass that we are beginning to realize what we have lost . Estimates to make our home livable range around $ 10,000 , and this does not include such items as furniture , antiques , and loving work we have done steadily since buying the house . Also , we still have approximately $ 17,100 left on our mortgage . For a family as young as ours , this is an overwhelming situation . " Unfortunately , the present Disaster Relief Act does not do the job for private homeowners and businessmen who saw their property destroyed by the flood . For those facing this situation all the present law offers is a loan at 5 1/8 % interest to try to rebuild . The best way , and I believe the fairest way , to help families and businesses who lost everything in the flood is to give them flat cash grants to rebuild . I investigated this possibility carefully and found the unanimous feeling that legislation to give flat cash grants could never pass the Congress . I could have introduced a bill to provide grants even though it could not have passed , but I feel very strongly that to have done this would have simply raised false hopes where real help is what is needed . For this reason I decided to introduce legislation that would lower interest rates on rebuilding loans and provide that a major portion of these loans would not have to be repaid . Very frankly , winning passage of the entire package of flood relief bills I have sponsored will be an extremely difficult task . On the other hand , when these bills were introduced most Congressmen felt that no new legislation could be passed . As of today , the House has passed one of my bills , and prospects for at least some helpful new legislation are good . Because it is important that people affected by the flood disaster know exactly what new laws have been proposed , how these would affect them , and what the chances for getting these new laws really is , I would like to give you a hard , realistic appraisal of what we are trying to do , and how likely it is that we will succeed . 1. Legislation to lower the interest rate on SBA loans : SBA loans are presently available to businessmen and homeowners affected by the flood . They are given at 5 1/8 % interest . The person making the loan must repay all but $ 2,500 of the loan and pay the 5 1/8 % interest rate as well . I introduced a bill to lower the interest rate on these loans to 1 % . The House Committee rewrote my bill to provide for 3 % interest if the person repays the full loan , or 1 % interest if he chooses to not repay $ 2,500 of the loan . The bill then passed the House in this slightly weakened form . The bill would be retroactive to before the flood and would permit people who have made SBA loans at 5 1/8 % interest to renegotiate those loans at the new lower interest rate . The chances that the Senate will pass this bill this summer are good . 2. Legislation to increase the amount of a loan which does not have to be repaid : Disaster loans must presently be fully repaid except for $ 2,500 which is forgiven . Thus , if you take a $ 20,000 loan to rebuild , you must repay $ 17,500 of that loan . I have introduced a bill which would forgive 90 % of the amount of any disaster loan . Thus , if this bill passes , a person making a $ 20,000 loan to rebuild would have to repay only $2,000 of that amount . Again , the provisions of this bill , if it passes , will be available to people who have made loans under the present law . This is the bill which we need most badly . It would provide loans on such generous terms that nearly everyone could afford to rebuild . Frankly , this is also the bill which will be most difficult to pass . The House Public Works Subcommittee will open hearings on this bill in July . I am hopeful that some legislation increasing the amount of a disaster loan which will not have to be repaid ( will be " forgiven " ) can pass . But I would rate the chances of passing my 90 % forgiveness bill as poor . The chances of passing some increases in the amount to be forgiven on a loan are probably fair to good . 3. Legislation to rebuild public recreation areas : Under the present law all public facilities except recreation areas will be restored by the Federal Government . I feel that recreation facilities , which are vital to our tourist oriented economy , should also be restored with Federal help . I have introduced a bill that would permit this restoration . I would rate chances for its passage as fair to good . This , then , is the most realistic assessment I can give of my legislative efforts to help . I wish I could be more optimistic , but , in fairness , I can not . All I can promise is that I will push just as hard as I know how for new laws to help in every way possible . One way you might help me is to look over the laws I have proposed and write me explaining in detail how they would help you or people you know . We need specific examples of what these laws would mean to the people of Rapid City . These examples will be our best argument when we go before the Committees and the Congress . In return for your help I would like to remind you that my job , and that of my office , is to help . Many of you have already written describing problems you are having with Federal agencies as a result of the flood . I can not urge you too strongly to let me know whenever you feel there is anything at all I might do to assist . You can reach me at : 508 Cannon Office Building , Washington , D.C. 20515 . Finally , a ray of hope . The things we build -- homes , businesses , communities -- can be destroyed , true , but the human spirit is indomitable . The people hit by this flood have shown that spirit , and shown it high and wide . It is our best hope . Stay in touch , James Abourezk Member of Congress ( Not printed at Government expense )