Wayne has written with comedy legend Judd Apatow , penned lines for major awards shows , and was the head monologue writer for Jimmy Fallon when Fallon was doing Late Night . So I remember , like a couple of months into the Fallon job , which was one of the greatest jobs I 've had in my life , one of the greatest jobs you can have is running a monologue room for late night thing . Even like three months in , I was like , oh , this feels like school . It feels like you have to get up and go to school . It was like a workday hours . I do n't really love getting up in the morning . Anne and Wayne both told me that while an episode of TV is usually credited to 1 or 2 writers , everything always starts with a group of smart , funny people sitting around a table . One year I had like my own little off- , like a little just office , like very -- as small as you could . And then when we moved to a different location , it was -- I was part of like the production team , like the person that was doing the bookings was three desks away . So it was all very chaotic and there was no privacy . Usually space is limited . It feels a lot like hanging out with a group of friends and just finding what you genuinely like talking about , what you find funny about certain things . Like you come up with your own vocabulary for how to discuss ideas . It just sort of becomes this little um I guess summer camp type thing where it 's like insular and it 's a , it 's a community . And I mean I feel like writers room , and I 've spoken to people about that , all reflect the show runner and what he or she wants out of that . Wayne 's journey to running the room for Late Night with Jimmy Fallon was a little less than typical . There 's something called a writer 's packet where , as comedian or writer they put down , they do sample monologue jokes , you do sample sketch jokes . I never have had a packet . What happened was Jimmy Fallon was hired to take over for Conan , who was taking over for Jay Leno . That was what was going on . Lorne Michaels told Jimmy he 's like , I want you to go out on the road , back on the road and do some standup . Now , Jimmy had kind of not been doing that much road was really just an actor . So Jimmy contacted me and was like , look , I got to go out on the road . I want to get my chops back up . Lorne wants me to cuz he sees me in the audience interacting . I want to like , do crowd work and stuff . Can I open for you on the road ? And then during the day we 'll come up with a new act together . And we wrote together . Like during the day we were just two friends , usually hanging out , trying to make each other laugh . I remember there was one bit , I do n't remember the specifics of it , but it was a a GPS joke in the car thing , like the different voices that were talking to you . And he would do like the British voice , you know , he could do all of those voices and stuff . So we we worked on that . And when he first had it , it was just a couple like jokes . And by the time I was done with it , there was like 7 or 8 great little punchlines , like , oh , this is great . Like he re- I really fleshed it out . Wayne 's experience was definitely uncommon . Most people do n't just get asked by a show 's star to run their writers ' room . In contrast , Anne took a more traditional route to the writers ' room . She submitted writing samples . And now that she 's actually in the writers ' room , her own real life experience , a background in improv and sketch comedy , has been incredibly useful . If you know anything about improv , you 're familiar with the concept of " Yes , And " . It 's about creating forward momentum with your collaborator , taking whatever the other performer says and building upon it , always adding information to the original idea in a collaborative spirit . The goal is to keep things going and to make something that 's ultimately bigger and better than what you started with . But in order to earn the ability to trust and try out new ideas with a group of other people , you 've got to be willing to also maybe look like an idiot from time to time . Putting , putting something out there , getting it smashed down in front of everyone , and then immediately , like having to jump back up and like , do it again . I think that something that improv and sketch helps with , or at least has helped me with is depersonalizing your connection to whatever is making you laugh at that time because you reali- I 've bombed a thousand times and and it 's sort of my favorite thing is when you 're like , I 'm certain this is hilarious . And then and then the audience is like , I 'm certain this is nothing . And you just double down for that performance of it because it 's hilarious that your mind thought something was , you know , you have to like be sort of reflective in moments like that of like , okay , yeah , alright , that 's fine . And just drop it and continue . But also , if you take every , um , every flop joke seriously , you 're going to have a bad day , you know , and it 's more just like a focus on the discussion at the time and what can help move an idea forward or move a certain train of thought forward rather than how can I say the funniest thing right now . It 's more like , what is it that we 're really discussing at the heart of it and how do we make that come to the forefront even more than it is now .