Good morning ! So we just slept in today because it 's our last day here in Glacier and we 've been getting up at five o'clock every morning so that we could get into the park and get hiking early . And on our last day we were like " we 're sleeping in " . So we slept to like 7:15 today . Anyways I just wanted to show you guys this is what our shoes look like every day after we get done hiking in Glacier . They 're super super super dusty . That 's how the paths are , so I have to clean them every day um but yeah . So that 's fun just a heads up , hiking in Glacier , it 's not muddy it 's just the dusty dirt paths are very dusty . They are all cleaned up ! But hey I just wanted to give a shout out to these Adidas Terrex shoes , I literally bought these hiking shoes right before our trip . They literally arrived on my doorstep the day before we left for the trip because I needed some new hiking shoes , and these have been absolutely the best hiking shoes I 've ever owned . So if you 're in a need for some new hiking shoes I definitely recommend these Adidas Terrex . What I like about these is that they 're tennis shoe - like then they have the rubber soles on the front for if you 're walking through , like , wet grass areas and the grip on these guys are amazing . So these have been awesome for hiking and I highly recommend them , especially if you 're looking for like a lighter shoe that 's not heavy like hiking boots or anything . These have been great . If you need shoes , get these . So it 's our last day and we are just driving the uh – Going to the Sun Road and we ’re just gon na stop along wherever we want to go . We 're not having any plans today and right now we are at like a river waterfall area , so yeah we 're just gon na kind of roll with whatever happens today , so just chill , relax and enjoy our last day in beautiful Glacier National Park ! Alright so I think we 're gon na just do a tiny bit of hiking this morning just to kind of get out and move , and we feel pretty good from hiking 12 miles yesterday , like we 're totally ready to go again . So that 's good ! So I think we 're gon na start here at the loop trailhead which is the same highline – um , trail that we did the other day . It 's just the other end of it , um , so we 're just gon na hike a little bit on that . It is overcast today and they said there could be some rain , so we 're probably gon na go far and that 's okay . We really want to just chill out today so um we 're just gon na hike and see what happens . This is a pretty cool little thing that is posted here at the loop so this Going - To - The - Sun Road is actually considered a national landmark now , how cool . 1997 they declared it . That 's so cool . It 's one of the best roads in the US I feel , it 's amazing . Alright here it is . Ready to do a little hiking ? Sure . Alright . Morning ! And we ’re in grizzly bear country ! We got the bear spray though . Alright , I think we made it about a mile on the loop and I think we 're gon na turn around because thing is it 's all uphi- uphill and we 're just we 're being lazy today . We 've been hiking 10 plus miles a day so , you know what , last day we 're gon na – we 're gon na chill . And yeah I 'm gon na head back and then just keep driving and stop along the way . Just driving on the Sun Road , probably go to Saint Mary 's Lake again . Just kind of getting in the last views of this beautiful road . So yeah , so pretty . It 's just a really big like traffic jam here on the road . There 's a grizzly bear and two babies that were hanging out up here . I could n't get it on my camera . She was like too far away and then she 'd like go into the bush and stuff but I do have my big Canon and I was able to get some photos of her but that was cool ! We finally seen grizzly bears ! Finally ! Because we have n't seen any yet and it 's our last day so we were really hoping to see some today and we did ! So whoo-hoo ! Glad it was mama and babies , so cute , and far away . Far away , not on the trail . She was huge ! She was a big big big mama . So that 's so cool I 'm so glad we found . So , cheers ! Guys so we had an awesome lazy day in the park today and now we are ending our time in Glacier with some pizza . We got beers at Pizza Hut in Montana ! Montana , you can get beer . Whoa mind blowing It 's not even – it 's not three - two , it 's like real good . It 's real beer , not three two , yes . It 's the real deal Alright Pizza Hut was awesome and now we went and got some ice cream . We 're so healthy . We ’re the healthiest . I told him a small . Everything 's bigger in Montana . Everything 's bigger in Montana . It ’s huge . But anyways we 're just down by this river here that 's like right here in Columbia Falls and we 're going to eat our ice cream and enjoy our last evening here . Cheers . In Montana . Yeah . Cheers ! Alright you guys , it 's our last day here and at Glacier National Park . It is windy as you can see I just wanted to thank you guys so much for watching our vlog . We had such a great time being back in Glacier and I hope this inspired you to come out here and see one of our most favorite national parks we 've ever been to in the USA . We have a 10 hour drive today ahead of us . We are heading to Gillette , Wyoming and then from there we are going to be heading into South Dakota . And if you have n't already be sure to give this video a thumbs up . If you have any questions of course comment below and do n't forget to subscribe for future videos . Thank you guys so much for watching ! Bye bye ! Bye guys !