Stranger Things Happen - Water Off a Black Dog ’s Back Rachel Rook took Carroll home to meet her parents two months after she first slept with him . For a generous girl , a girl who took off her clothes with abandon , she was remarkably close - mouthed about some things . In two months Carroll had learned that her parents lived on a farm several miles outside of town ; that they sold strawberries in summer , and Christmas trees in the winter . He knew that they never left the farm ; instead , the world came to them in the shape of weekend picnickers and driveby tourists . Do you think your parents will like me ? " he said . He had spent the afternoon preparing for this visit as carefully as if he were preparing for an exam . He had gotten his hair cut , trimmed his nails , washed his neck and behind his ears . The outfit he had chosen , khaki pants and a blue button - down shirt -- no tie -- lay neatly folded on the bed . He stood before Rachel in his plain white underwear and white socks , gazing at her as if she were a mirror . " No , " she said . It was the first time she had been to his apartment , and she stood square in the center of his bedroom , her arms folded against her body as if she was afraid to sit down , to touch something . " Why ? " " My father will like you , " she said . " But he likes everyone . My mother 's more particular -- she thinks that you lack a serious nature . " Carroll put on his pants , admiring the crease . " So you 've talked to her about me . " " Yes . " " But you have n't talked about her to me . " " No . " " Are you ashamed of her ? " Rachel snorted . Then she sighed in a way that seemed to suggest she was regretting her decision to take him home . " You 're ashamed of me , " he guessed , and Rachel kissed him and smiled and did n't say anything . Rachel still lived on her parents ' farm , which made it all the more remarkable that she had kept Carroll and her parents apart for so long . It suggested a talent for daily organization that filled Carroll 's heart with admiration and lust . She was nineteen , two years younger than Carroll ; she was a student at Jellicoh College and every weekday she rose at seven and biked four miles into town , and then back again on her bike , four miles uphill to the farm . Carroll met Rachel in the Jellicoh College library , where he had a part - time job . He sat at the checkout desk , stamping books and reading Tristram Shandy for a graduate class ; he was almost asleep when someone said , " Excuse me . " He looked up . The girl who stood before the tall desk was red - headed . Sunlight streaming in through a high window opposite her lit up the fine hairs on her arm , the embroidered flowers on the collar of her white shirt . The sunlight turned her hair to fire and Carroll found it difficult to look directly at her . " Can I help you ? " he said . She placed a shredded rectangle on the desk , and Carroll picked it up between his thumb and forefinger . Pages hung in tatters from the sodden blue spine . Title , binding , and covers had been gnawed away . " I need to pay for a damaged book , " she said . " What happened ? Did your dog eat it ? " he said , making a joke . " Yes , " she said , and smiled . " What 's your name ? " Carroll said . Already , he thought he might be in love .