Hey guys ! So welcome back to my channel . So it 's Shawntas Way here today , and today I 'm going to be talking to you guys about number one : my new product line . I have new products out , and I 'm gon na be showing you guys today exactly how I 'm going to be using my products , and I 'm also going to be showing you guys this extreme moisture bomb routine that you can do , um , for wintertime because it is getting a little bit colder outside . Um , which you always want to focus on the moisture of your hair , but the colder months in some areas of the world can be brutal . Um , it 's not like super cold w- where I am just yet , but it 's getting there , so ignore my hair right now . I know it looks kinda crazy . I just now got done washing it . I 'm gon na tell you guys about that process as well , but first let 's go ahead and get into these products ! I can not believe that I 'm actually showing you guys these products . So this product line is the Angelic Coco line , and I have been working on this line since 2019 . Um , as you guys see there 's only two products , but of course I 'm going to be expanding . Um , and you guys will see , like , a lot more stuff in the future , but first we want to focus on these two products . I wanted to get these out to you guys because you guys have been asking for styling products since the beginning , so I 'm so glad to finally have actual styling products that I can , um , you know , present to you guys . So this first product that I 'm going to show you guys is the Nourished by Shawnta Curl Defining and Soft Hold Styler , which is enriched with sesame seed oil and rose essence . So it 's the Angelic Coco Curl Creator Cream , and it has coconut plus rose in it . So this product is – I just – I love it . It 's so moisturizing . It 's really really thick . You guys can see on the camera it 's super thick . Um , it does have like a butter feel to it . It 's a cream , but it has a really buttery feel to it . And it 's of course white , hence the name " Angelic Coco " . The ingredients in here are super jam - packed . There 's even honey in here . I wanted to make sure that this styler actually contributes to the health of your hair . So a lot of times with stylers , they 're just , you know , there to give you a nice style , which is great , but I want to make sure that all my products are geared towards the health of the hair even if they 're styling products . So I was , like , not backing down on that part . So there are , like , really jam - packed vitamins , nutrients in this formula . As I mentioned , one of the ingredients is pure honey , along with a lot more nutrient - dense botanicals and herbs . There 's even horsetail in here , which is amazing for hair growth . So this is geared towards moisturizing your hair and also hair growth . As you guys know , that 's all I talk about on my channel most of the time . I really did want to make sure that I infused that into the product as well . If you guys are wondering , the smell of this product is very natural . It 's very natural , and it does n't have a strong scent . With all of my products are normally like a pretty natural smell . I do n't put really really strong scents in my products . I can just like – I ca n't even begin to tell you how much time and effort I put into this line . And , um , I 'm just super excited . I just – I do n't know what to say . I 'm like " What else can I say ? What else can I say ? " I do n't know what to say . I 'm just so excited to finally , like , give it to you guys and know that it 's gon na contribute to the actual health of your hair . You can use this on twist outs . You can use this on braid outs . You can even use it on your wash - n - go as well . But I will say with wash - n - go's a- on my channel , I always show you guys wash - n - go's where I put a gel on there . So I could not come out with a cream and tell you guys just – " You can use it on your wash - n - go's " when that would kinda go against all that I 've always said on my channel , which is " Gels actually are what make your wash - n - go stay . " So that brings us to the next product , which is my curl defining jelly . I have a gel as well , so it 's not just a cream . I have another styler as well , which is a gel . So the next product is the Angelic Clear Coarse Jelly with aloe plus rosemary , and it 's a curl - defining and light - to - medium whole jelly , and it 's enriched with aloe vera juice , which is amazing . Amazing for hair moisture . So with gels – a lot of times you will find gels that kinda , like , dry out your hair . Lots of ingredients in it that kinda like counteracts what you would typically want for your hair . But a lot of times we kinda , like , deal with it because , you know , the gel is what 's gon na keep our hair in place and make it actually last . So I wanted to make a gel that did not do any of those things . So this gel is going to give a light - to - medium health . You guys already know that – if you follow my channel for a while , you know that I use , like , light defining gels and jellies and stuff all throughout my channel . Um , and more of the harder gels that really , like , make your hair feel super hard – I do n't normally use those because I do n't feel like you need all that . You just need , like , a nice holding gel .