The Texas War for Independence Many Americans who migrated to Texas at the invitation of the Mexican government did not completely shed their identity or loyalty to the United States . They brought American traditions and expectations with them ( including , for many , the right to own slaves ) . For instance , the majority of these new settlers were Protestant , and though they were not required to attend the Catholic mass , Mexico 's prohibition on the public practice of other religions upset them and they routinely ignored it . Accustomed to representative democracy , jury trials , and the defendant ’s right to appear before a judge , the Anglo - American settlers in Texas also disliked the Mexican legal system , which provided for an initial hearing by an alcalde , an administrator who often combined the duties of mayor , judge , and law enforcement officer . The alcalde sent a written record of the proceeding to a judge in Saltillo , the state capital , who decided the outcome . Settlers also resented that at most two Texas representatives were allowed in the state legislature . Their greatest source of discontent , though , was the Mexican government 's 1829 abolition of slavery . Most American settlers were from southern states , and many had brought slaves with them . Mexico tried to accommodate them by maintaining the fiction that the slaves were indentured servants . But American slaveholders in Texas distrusted the Mexican government and wanted Texas to be a new U.S. slave state . The dislike of most for Roman Catholicism ( the prevailing religion of Mexico ) and a widely held belief in American racial superiority led them generally to regard Mexicans as dishonest , ignorant , and backward . Figure 1.3 This 1833 map shows the extent of land grants made by Mexico to American settlers in Texas . Nearly all are in the eastern portion of the state , one factor that led to war with Mexico in 1846 . Image credit : Holley ( Armstrong & Plaskitt ) , Public Domain Belief in their own superiority inspired some Texans to try to undermine the power of the Mexican government . When empresario Haden Edwards attempted to evict people who had settled his land grant before he gained title to it , the Mexican government nullified its agreement with him . Outraged , Edwards and a small party of men took prisoner the alcalde of Nacogdoches . The Mexican army marched to the town , and Edwards and his troops then declared the formation of the Republic of Fredonia between the Sabine and Rio Grande Rivers . To demonstrate loyalty to their adopted country , a force led by Stephen Austin hastened to Nacogdoches to support the Mexican army . Edwards ’s revolt collapsed , and the revolutionaries fled Texas . The growing presence of American settlers in Texas , their reluctance to abide by Mexican law , and their desire for independence caused the Mexican government to grow wary . In 1830 , it forbade future U.S. immigration and increased its military presence in Texas . Settlers continued to stream illegally across the long border ; by 1835 , after immigration resumed , there were twenty thousand Anglo - Americans in Texas . Fifty - five delegates from the Anglo - American settlements gathered in 1831 to demand the suspension of customs duties , the resumption of immigration from the United States , better protection from Indian tribes , the granting of promised land titles , and the creation of an independent state of Texas separate from Coahuila . Ordered to disband , the delegates reconvened in early April 1833 to write a constitution for an independent Texas . Surprisingly , General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna , Mexico ’s new president , agreed to all demands , except the call for statehood . Coahuila y Texas made provisions for jury trials , increased Texas ’s representation in the state legislature , and removed restrictions on commerce . Figure 1.4 This portrait of General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna depicts the Mexican president and general in full military regalia . Image credit : Public Domain Texans ' hopes for independence were quashed in 1834 , however , when Santa Anna dismissed the Mexican Congress and abolished all state governments , including that of Coahuila y Texas . In January 1835 , reneging on earlier promises , he dispatched troops to the town of Anahuac to collect customs duties . Lawyer and soldier William B. Travis and a small force marched on Anahuac in June , and the fort surrendered . On October 2 , Anglo - American forces met Mexican troops at the town of Gonzales ; the Mexican troops fled and the Americans moved on to take San Antonio . Now more cautious , delegates to the Consultation of 1835 at San Felipe de Austin voted against declaring independence , instead drafting a statement , which became known as the Declaration of Causes , promising continued loyalty if Mexico returned to a constitutional form of government . They selected Henry Smith , leader of the Independence Party , as governor of Texas and placed Sam Houston , a former soldier who had been a congressman and governor of Tennessee , in charge of its small military force . The Consultation delegates met again in March 1836 . They declared their independence from Mexico and drafted a constitution calling for an American - style judicial system and an elected president and legislature . Significantly , they also established that slavery would not be prohibited in Texas . Many wealthy Tejanos supported the push for independence , hoping for liberal governmental reforms and economic benefits . Remember the Alamo ! Mexico had no intention of losing its northern province . Santa Anna and his army of four thousand had besieged San Antonio in February 1836 . Hopelessly outnumbered , its two hundred defenders , under Travis , fought fiercely from their refuge in an old mission known as the Alamo . After ten days , however , the mission was taken and all but a few of the defenders were dead , including Travis and James Bowie , the famed frontiersman who was also a land speculator and slave trader . A few male survivors , possibly including the frontier legend and former Tennessee congressman Davy Crockett , were led outside the walls and executed . The few women and children inside the mission were allowed to leave with the only adult male survivor , a slave owned by Travis who was then freed by the Mexican Army . Terrified , they fled . Figure 1.5 The Fall of the Alamo , painted by Theodore Gentilz fewer than ten years after this pivotal moment in the Texas Revolution , depicts the 1836 assault on the Alamo complex .