Hi everyone ! So I 'm just about to tuck into a crisp sandwich . Salt vinegar squares are my crisp of choice . And I 've got some apple juice because this signifies kind of my diet staples the last few weeks . So I thought this was an opportune time to tell you all that a couple of weeks ago I found out that I am pregnant . It 's the first week that I 've been actually able to say the words " I 'm pregnant " and have it not feel really weird . I found out on , I think it was the 3rd of January . Let 's just double check that . No , excuse me , it was the fifth of January . I found out on the fifth and that was because my period was late and I am never late . As soon as I came off the pill my period came back pretty regularly and I started tracking my periods just because I knew the pregnancy was something that eventually we would want , and I know that it helps if you 've been tracking your period so you know your cycle . And for the first few days / couple of weeks I felt really anxious , really scared , really worried , because my initial reaction was , and still now , I 'm a bit like , I 'm not old enough for this . I 'm not grown up enough to do this . You feel like you 're prepared , you 're in a , you know , in a relationship . We have been for years , we 're adults , but I do n't know what it is . As soon as I found out I just went back to like a 14 year old girl . I 'm like " oh my god , what am I gon na tell my mom ? I ca n't be a mom . " So really I was just very very overwhelmed and anxious so it took a few days for me to really process what happened . It was quite a shock and it 's such a huge huge thing . It 's life - changing , and so for the first couple of weeks that 's all I could focus on , was how life - changing it was and it was really scary . I then started to talk to people about it , that made me feel better . And , I 'm not really sure what I 'm trying to say . I do n't want this to be too , like , all over the place but I decided I do want to document this some way , whether I – at first I was like , I do n't need to copy it on YouTube but I definitely wanted to document this in some kind of video form , just because it 's such a huge thing . You ’re only pregnant for the first time once . But I did want to document my first trimester to an extent , because when I first found out , I did start to watch videos of people 's first few weeks , but again , maybe because I was n't in a great headspace , that just frightened me , which again was because everyone was just saying how awful they felt , how excited they were , and I did n't feel excited . I felt worried . The thought of telling , like , my mom . I cried when I told her because I felt so , just , like , oh my god . I mean you , you feel quite bad when you feel like that , because it 's such a happy thing and now , you know , I – you know , I know I 've kind of accepted . The shock has kind of sunk in . And I am happy to tell people , but at first when you 're trying to get your head around it , it 's very daunting and you just feel awful thinking . The thought of telling someone makes me want to burst into tears . All these things going onto my head . So that also then helped me to make the decision that I do want to document this , but I 'm probably going to do it , like , with hindsight , so I check in every now and again and just let you know how I 've been feeling . But in terms of if I am sick or I 'm not feeling great , I 'm not gon na vlog whilst I feel like that . I would n't want to vlog whilst I feel like that if I was just ill anyway . And I just think it did n't help me seeing people at their worst at the very beginning , because all you hear is doom and gloom . I decided to wait a few weeks before I even started to talk about it , so I think I 'm about seven weeks . I am waiting for my first midwife appointment . I went – I booked the doctors , because the NHS says you need to book a doctor 's appointment , but that was a waste of time and I felt quite bad about taking that appointment . Because in my area you 'd have to self - refer , so I have n't had any kind of appointment or checkups or anything but I have been tracking – tracking – I 've got an app called " what to expect " , put in my , you know , cycle situation and have an estimated due date , which is about mid-September . In terms of symptoms , I mean I have n't felt the best , but I have been able to get through it . I 've definitely struggled on some days but I have n't been sick . The biggest thing for me is I have lost – I dipped , and I have lost my appetite . There 's nothing I really feel like eating . I do n't have particular aversions to things , I do n't feel really sick when I smell anything at the moment . But there 's things that I do n't want to have , so like coffee , I just know that I do n't want that , and all I want is beige : I want chips , I want white toast , it 's pretty much all I eat all day . Pasta if I want something hot maybe , I 've had soup , but essentially starchy carbs and that 's quite normal it seems . Like , everyone craves that at this point because you 're , you know , building a baby , so you need that energy . So I do n't feel particularly great nutrition-wise , and I 'm trying to eat fruit where I can and veg when I can , but I 'm just sort of going with it , because I know there 's enough information out there that this is generally how it goes . And then hopefully you start to feel a bit better . I have felt nauseous and as everyone describes it , a bit jet - lagged , a bit cloudy in my head , and the worst thing for me has been headaches . I have n't had them this week , but last week I had a couple of really really bad ones and I have n't had headaches that bad for years .