Hi everyone , welcome back to my channel . My name is Katie and today I 'm going to be talking about my two and a half week long vacation to Portland , Oregon . So I am from Washington D.C. , and I have a bunch of family in Portland , Oregon , so it was n't my first time going there . Um but it was definitely my first time , like as an adult . So that was really exciting and fun . I thought that I would make sort of like more of an informative video because I could just like post a vlog , but um the footage was like so random , and all over the place . I got some really cool footage but um , not like cute like Instagram girl footage , because I did dress like a 12 year old boy the whole time . So the first thing that I recommend you do in Portland is not actually in Portland at all . So you might be like this is a terrible list . Sorry . The number one thing that we did on our trip was we actually stayed a night in Eugene , Oregon , and we got up at like the crack of dawn and drove to Crater Lake . This was incredible . Um one of the coolest things that I have ever seen . The footage that I 'm gon na put in here honestly it looks a little bit fake . This place was incredible . We did n't do a whole lot of hiking here because there was not a whole lot of cloud coverage that day , and it was so hot . So what we did was we drove around the entire perimeter of the lake and you get all these incredible views of the mountains and the lake , and seeing it from all the different angles was so worth it . So maybe this is not something that you want to do if you 're just going to Portland for a couple of days but it 's definitely something to consider if you 're going out to Oregon for a little bit longer period of time . Number two is shopping . These are in no particular order by the way . They 're just sort of like what I thought of as I was making this video . So there 's a lot of cool shopping in Portland , Oregon . A lot of cool thrifting and vintage stores , a lot of cool art galleries . And then one of the biggest things that you should check out while you 're there is Powell 's which is a bookstore . And I want to say it 's like the the biggest like Indie Indie bookstore in America . I guess that 's what it 's called . I 'm gon na – oh , it 's the world 's largest independent bookstore . So this place was so cool we could have spent hours in here . The best thing that I thought about this bookstore was that they mixed in new copies of books with used copies . So if you 're looking for a book and you 're wondering like – oh I wonder if I could get this used , like it 's usually right next to it , which I thought was just like so awesome . That was very exciting for me because I love a used book . So I am not a huge like nature person . Um I do n't enjoy bugs . But um I will go on a good hike from now and again so just like you know where I 'm coming from . My friend Andrea is a biology major so we did stop to look at many slugs that were on the ground and I did beeline it away from the slugs . But if you like slugs , you 're in – you 're in luck . So the first couple days we were in Portland , we went hiking in Forest Park which you can get to by public transit in the city . It 's really quick and some of the trails even pop you back out into like the city , so it 's – it 's really super accessible . So we did the Wildwood Trail and we also did a tour of Pittock Mansion . Um if you do n't want to do a tour of Pittock Mansion , I 'd still recommend like taking the trail up there because it has a really cool like overlook of the city that you can go see . Um I loved doing that . So number four are the Japanese gardens and the rose gardens in Forest Park . I actually do n't know if they 're like technically in Forest Park but they 're right in the same area . So the rose garden is free and open to the public and it is just huge . It 's a lot of roses as you can imagine . Um lots of tourists but it was – it was still really fun . You get to walk through all these gardens and different types of roses from different parts of the world and yeah it was just really cool . Then the Japanese gardens you do have to pay for but I will say that it was definitely worth it . If it 's a clear day you can actually see Mount Hood from the Japanese gardens which was really wild , and the garden was just so pretty and quiet and serene . There were even some people like meditating in there which was kind of funny . I did wear my bird shirt – It 's a pretty good bird shirt , I got a compliment on it – which I did n't say this earlier , but I bought this at the Audubon Society which I learned what that was . I did n't know what that was but it 's um a society for um like bird watching and bird care and um they had a shirt that said bird nerd on it so I bought it because I thought it was funny . But I was approached by – I want to say – at least three different people who asked me if I did bird watching like very seriously .