Consider this scenario . A student comes to class one day , and the instructor says , “ I ’ve decided that you ’re all a bunch of failures and I ’m flunking the entire class . ” Imagine then that the instructor simply stands there after that announcement , blinking calmly as the class erupts in protest . Now imagine that same scenario with one very slight difference . The instructor announces , “ I ’ve decided that you ’re all a bunch of failures and I ’m flunking the entire class . ” Then , as the class erupts in protest , the instructor calmly blinks one eye , leaving the other eye open . Figure 3.4 Would you take this woman seriously ? In American culture , winking , related to the normal biological function of blinking , takes on special meaning in social interactions . ( credit : Motion Picture News / Wikimedia Commons , Public Domain ) What just happened there ? Blinking is a biological compulsion common to humans everywhere . Humans blink to keep eyes hydrated and clear of debris . Humans are born knowing how to blink ; nobody has to teach us . On average , humans blink 15 to 20 times every minute . Without realizing it , people are necessarily blinking throughout every conversation , every social interaction , every activity during the day . The people we talk to and interact with are also blinking constantly , so often that everyone is accustomed to ignoring it . Blinking does not affect the perceived meaning of speech or actions . But if someone deliberately blinks one eye , leaving the other one open , that ’s a completely different matter . In fact , leaving one eye open makes a blink a wink . Winking is not a biological necessity . Humans are not born knowing to how to wink , and it takes some practice to learn how to do it . Because it requires deliberate effort and people are not constantly doing it , winking can acquire special meaning in social interactions . In American culture ( and many others ) , a wink often indicates that someone is joking around and that whatever they ’ve just said or done should not be taken seriously . Of course , a wink can mean different things in different societies . Moreover , a wink can mean different things in the same society . If someone on a date takes their companion ’s hand and gives a cute little wink , the person may have reason to hope the winker is not just joking around . American cultural anthropologist Clifford Geertz ( 1973 ) used the example of winking to illustrate two important aspects of culture . First , culture is learned . Innate human behaviors — that is , behaviors that people are born with — are biological , not cultural . Blinking is biological . Acquired human behaviors — that is , behaviors that people are taught — are cultural . Winking is cultural . This means that cultural behaviors are not genetically inherited from generation to generation but must be passed down from older members of a society to younger members . This process , as you ’ll recall from What is Anthropology ? is called enculturation . Some aspects of enculturation are deliberate and systematic , such as learning the rules of written punctuation in a language . At some point in an English speaker ’s childhood , someone explicitly told them the difference between a question mark and an exclamation point . Most likely , they learned this distinction in school , a fundamental institution of enculturation in many societies . Religious institutions are another common force of enculturation , providing explicit instruction in cultural rules of morality and social interaction . Extracurricular activities such as sports , dance , and music lessons also teach children cultural rules and norms . While a great deal of very important cultural content is deliberately conveyed in these systematic contexts , the greater part of culture is acquired unconsciously by happenstance — that is , nobody planned to teach it , and no one made an effort to consciously try to learn it . By virtue of growing up in a culture , children learn what certain actions and objects mean , how their society operates , and what the rules are for appropriate behavior . Going back to the cultural notion of home , did anyone ever explain to you why your childhood home was structured in a certain way ? Did anyone ever point out the cultural assumptions about gender and family built into your house ? Probably not . Now , imagine that you were taken away from your parents as a baby and adopted by a family far away , with a very different way of life situated in a very different environment . With your adoptive family , you might have been raised in a very different kind of home . Growing up , your everyday habits , activities , and expectations would have been shaped by the setup of that home . Living in that house , you would have wordlessly absorbed a set of assumptions about family , gender , work , leisure , hospitality , and property . And all of it would seem quite natural to you . Many forms of culture are passed down through a combination of deliberate and unconscious processes . Perhaps when you were a child , someone told you what a wink was and showed you how to accomplish one ; or perhaps you just witnessed a few winks , figured out what they meant from their contexts , and then learned how to accomplish one through trial and error . Geertz pointed out that there are two important aspects to winking : the meaning and the action . As both are learned , both are cultural . But perhaps more importantly , both the standardized action of winking and the assumed meaning of this action are commonly known among members of a group . That is , culture is shared .