How to Ballet Dance Ballet began in royal courts in the early 1600's , and early forms of this elegant and sophisticated art involved long skirts and wooden clogs . Dancing ballet is extremely popular throughout the world , and studying ballet can help develop strong bodies , spatial and temporal awareness , and improve coordination . People who study ballet also retain flexibility throughout their adult lives , making this technique the basis of training for all types of dance . While dancing ballet takes dedication and requires serious training , you can learn the basics to prepare yourself for further study . Learn to get ready for practicing , the basic positions , and some of the first techniques you 're likely to encounter in ballet . Part 1 Getting Ready to Dance Stretch your muscles thoroughly . Stretching is important to loosen muscles , strengthen muscles and to elongate your posture . It is vital that it is done at the beginning of each ballet session , including before a performance . When taking on ballet , it is important to stretch daily for at least 15 - 30 minutes , to give the muscles ample opportunity to warm up , reducing the risk of injury . You should also stretch to " wind down " at the end of ballet dancing . Always wear ballet slippers . Properly - fitted ballet shoes should be snug , but not so tight they cut off blood flow and create numbness in the feet . There are different styles and types of shoes , so ask your ballet teacher or a salesman at the store for advice , given your intentions for dancing . Do n't buy shoes to grow into , because your feet will seem flexed when you pointe and will look flat . You should fit them to where the drawstring is tied slightly loose . If your drawstring is longer than your pinkie then you should cut it off till it is roughly the size of your fingernail . The drawstring just completes the fit . It is n't made to tighten overly large shoes . If you ca n't buy ballet shoes , that it is okay . Use socks without the stickies on the bottom , so you can turn ! Wear comfortable and snug - fitting athletic clothes . The most important thing is that you are comfortable , and that you 're not wearing baggy or loose fitting clothing so you can make sure you 're forming and moving correctly in the mirror . A plain black leotard and pink tights are usually a safe bet . Pink or black ballet slippers are also appropriate . If you 're signed up for a class , check with your instructor to find out if there is a dress code at the school . Some schools may have students wear the same thing and others may just require any type of leotard and tights and sometimes ballet skirts . Mostly they require tight fitting clothing so they can see that your muscles are working properly and so on . Find an appropriate space to practice . Ballet is less about learning the moves and more about perfecting them . The moves themselves are relatively straightforward , but the positing , the timing , and the elegance required takes a lifetime of practice . For this reason , it 's always better to practice ballet in a ballet studio under the guidance of a good instructor , who will be able to correct your positioning and make sure that you 're dancing properly . A dancing studio is equipped with mirrors for correcting your positioning and seeing what you 're doing accurately , and a barre for practicing . [ 1 ] If you want to practice at home , make sure you 've got enough open space to move freely , preferably on a hard wood floor . The back of a chair can replace the need for a bar . Position a large mirror so you can check your positioning and see what you 're doing .