Okay , so a recheck would be about that much with the x - rays , and then — Mhm . Does that sound right ? Thirty - two — I think if we — she woke up , we could w- send her home tonight . I would n't see why we could n't send her home tonight , would you ? If she wakes up , fine . Oh well , we 're gon na be Biotaling her and oh — Sh- if she — she probably wo n't though . Never mind . Never mind . I was thinking , I 'm still thinking — Jeez . Na . Na na , na na na . And she wo n't have any an- antibiotics , cause there 's no break . No . And that — Thirty - two . What is this ? Ten , for anesthesia . Oh . But , they 're opposite . They 're still opposite . Yeah , that looks alright . Do n't you think we should charge them an extra eighteen ? For the distemper vaccine ? Trent does it . No . I felt horrible doing that on that eye dog that he had in here last week , under whatever night it was . Cause he had down twenty - five plus eighteen , and what can you do , when he 's already got it down ? Jeez . Well , well , all we did — I ca n't do that , cause all we did was , I was in here and put a bandage on . Yeah . Yeah . Um , did you get hold of Dan then ? Yeah . Let 's see . Six , fifty - six . Let me see , let me see . We need one of these and one of these , one of those , and one of those , and two of those . Three , fifty - three . Sent home with Amoxi , and Pred , so , we 'll see how — Yeah . Well , I 'll call him probably late this afternoon , to make sure he 's alright . Calculator ? No , I was just trying to figure out what we spent already . Mm . Mm . Let 's see , we 've already spent fifty for him , and I want him to spend another hundred . Well — But that 's better than pins , and surgery . Right , which would be another two hundred or — Yeah , it 's more for a surgery . To spend . Any — pretty much any time you can — And that one really , you know , I do n't think it would benefit from pins . M-m . Because we 'd have to undo it . I mean we 'd have to , well , we 'd have to go — We could — we could try it closed . Mhm . But , still , it 's more expensive . I think it 'll do fine with a cast , especially since it 's a spiral fracture . And it 's not displaced . And it 's not displaced . Should be pretty stable . It 'll be kind of a pain getting the — well , maybe not , getting the cast over the stifle ? Maybe not . Got kinda long legs . Well , as long as she 's — as long as she 's quiet . Okay , I 'll give him a call . I do n't know if he 's in the barn , from home . In back in from the barn yet or not . Well — Called both the house number and the barn number , and both of em , and , a little kid answered . Mm , yeah and they 're little little kids too . Mhm ? They 're like ' I 'm three . ' Yeah Carol ? It 's Marcia . Hi . Um , we got x - rays done already , and , I was gon na let you know what , what was going on . Should I talk to Richard or are you okay ? Okay . Um , it looks like she 's got a spiral fracture , of um , of her tibia , which is the bone between the knee and the hock , and , um , it 's f- it 's really looks , pretty stable . It 's not displaced very far anyway , and it 's um , pretty much , you know , locked in place , so to speak . Um , so I think that she would , she would do fine with a cast . Um , and , I pretty much got an estimate so far , with the , coming in yesterday , and the x - rays and everything , the bill was about fifty - four . And to do a cast , um , with the anasthesia , and staying one more night in the hospital and stuff , and then the casting material , probably the — It 's gon na be about a hundred and fifty - three , total . And , the only , then it would be , the only extra would be , in about six to eight weeks , we 'd have her come in again , we would tranquilize her , and take the X - rays , and see if it 's healed , enough to take off . And that 's generally about thirty - four to forty , somewhere in there . Yeah . You know , a pin , you know , if we did a pin , it 's probably , it would probably be even a hundred more but , so it 's it 's that 's about the — at this point the , the least expensive alternative that probably will work for her . Um , so , if you want to let him know and then have him call me back , if you , if you wan na go ahead and do it . Okay ? Lindsey ? You wan na put this kitty castration down ? Sure . Alright . And if she — you know , if we did it , she could probably go home tomorrow . Okay , whenever , whenever you get a chance . Okay , thanks Carol . Mhm , bye - bye .