Fix the Machine , Not the Person ( Swartz ) By Aaron Swartz #systemanalysis , #proposal , #technology , #automotiveindustry , #logos , #research , #sharedvalues #cognitivebias “ Photo ” is in the Public Domain , CC0 This post is part seven of the series Raw Nerve . The General Motors plant in Fremont was a disaster . “ Everything was a fight , ” the head of the union admits . “ They spent more time on grievances and on things like that than they did on producing cars . They had strikes all the time . It was just chaos constantly . ... It was considered the worst workforce in the automobile industry in the United States . ” “ One of the expressions was , you can buy anything you want in the GM plant in Fremont , ” adds Jeffrey Liker , a professor who studied the plant . “ If you want sex , if you want drugs , if you want alcohol , it 's there . During breaks , during lunch time , if you want to gamble illegally — any illegal activity was available for the asking within that plant . ” Absenteeism was so bad that some mornings they did n’t have enough employees to start the assembly line ; they had to go across the street and drag people out of the bar . When management tried to punish workers , workers tried to punish them right back : scratching cars , loosening parts in hard - to - reach places , filing union grievances , sometimes even building cars unsafely . It was war . In 1982 , GM finally closed the plant . But the very next year , when Toyota was planning to start its first plant in the US , it decided to partner with GM to reopen it , hiring back the same old disastrous workers into the very same jobs . And so began the most fascinating experiment in management history . Toyota flew this rowdy crew to Japan , to see an entirely different way of working : The Toyota Way . At Toyota , labor and management considered themselves on the same team ; when workers got stuck , managers did n’t yell at them , but asked how they could help and solicited suggestions . It was a revelation . “ You had union workers — grizzled old folks that had worked on the plant floor for 30 years , and they were hugging their Japanese counterparts , just absolutely in tears , ” recalls their Toyota trainer . “ And it might sound flowery to say 25 years later , but they had had such a powerful emotional experience of learning a new way of working , a way that people could actually work together collaboratively — as a team . Three months after they got back to the US and reopened the plant , everything had changed . Grievances and absenteeism fell away and workers started saying they actually enjoyed coming to work . The Fremont factory , once one of the worst in the US , had skyrocketed to become the best . The cars they made got near - perfect quality ratings . And the cost to make them had plummeted . It was n’t the workers who were the problem ; it was the system . An organization is not just a pile of people , it 's also a set of structures . It 's almost like a machine made of men and women . Think of an assembly line . If you just took a bunch of people and threw them in a warehouse with a bunch of car parts and a manual , it ’d probably be a disaster . Instead , a careful structure has been built : car parts roll down on a conveyor belt , each worker does one step of the process , everything is carefully designed and routinized . Order out of chaos . And when the system is n’t working , it does n’t make sense to just yell at the people in it — any more than you ’d try to fix a machine by yelling at the gears . True , sometimes you have the wrong gears and need to replace them , but more often you ’re just using them in the wrong way . When there ’s a problem , you should n’t get angry with the gears — you should fix the machine . If you have goals in life , you ’re probably going to need some sort of organization . Even if it ’s an organization of just you , it ’s still helpful to think of it as a kind of machine . You do n’t need to do every part of the process yourself — you just need to set up the machine so that the right outcomes happen . For example , let ’s say you want to build a treehouse in the backyard . You ’re great at sawing and hammering , but architecture is not your forte . You build and build , but the treehouses keep falling down . Sure , you can try to get better at architecture , develop a better design , but you can also step back , look at the machine as a whole , and decide to fire yourself as the architect . Instead , you find a friend who loves that sort of thing to design the treehouse for you and you stick to actually building it . After all , your goal was to build a treehouse whose design you like — does it really matter whether you ’re the one who actually designed it ? Or let ’s say you really want to get in shape , but never remember to exercise . You can keep beating yourself up for your forgetfulness , or you can put a system in place . Maybe you have your roommate check to see that you exercise before you leave your house in the morning or you set a regular time to consistently go to the gym together . Life is n’t a high school exam ; you do n’t have to solve your problems on your own . In 1967 , Edward Jones and Victor Harris gathered a group of college students and asked them to judge another student ’s exam ( the student was a fictional character , but let ’s call him Jim ) . The exam always had one question , asking Jim to write an essay on Fidel Castro “ as if [ he ] were giving the opening statement in a debate . ”