It is my special pleasure to address the fifty - ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations . This universal forum has enabled the peoples of the world to coordinate and harmonize their efforts in preserving peace and security , in achieving prosperity and upholding the values of human civilization . I would like to congratulate you , Mr. President , on being elected to preside over this august body and to express my confidence in your successful leadership . I would also like , on behalf of Albania , to convey to the Secretary - General our highest appreciation for his leading contribution to the fulfilment of the historical mission of the United Nations and to the aspirations of our peoples for a better world in which only peace , democracy and economic prosperity reign . This session of the General Assembly takes place in a milestone year for Europe . Only a few months ago , a historic event vitalized the dream of a more united and stronger Europe . Ten European countries , sharing a common aspiration for integration , were admitted into the European Union . The Albanian Government and society are engaged in an all - round European integration process , and they are carrying out necessary reforms with the necessary political will and drive . Albania is working to strengthen the democratic institutions and capacities of its central and local government with a view to bringing its legislation and conditions into line with European Union standards , progressively achieving concrete and measurable results , as previously defined . Determined to make our contribution to regional and global security , the Albanian Government considers the country 's integration into NATO to be one of its major objectives . The NATO Istanbul Summit last June commended the progress made by my country in this regard and encouraged the deepening of reforms . It welcomed Albania 's contribution to regional stability and cooperation and committed to assess our further progress at the next NATO summit , which would hopefully mark the start of negotiations for our full membership in the alliance . We believe that the commitments set up in the framework of the Adriatic Charter are also contributing to meet NATO standards , to the benefit of regional stability and security . We remain truly convinced that the respect and protection of human rights and freedoms are the main pillars of a pluralist democratic society . The Government of the Republic of Albania will continue to constantly demonstrate its commitment to a full implementation of the standards enshrined in the United Nations and Council of Europe conventions , as well as the relevant documents of regional organizations , such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe , in which we are playing a very active role . We will continue to do so in the future as well . By adopting contemporary legislation and by becoming a party to other recently adopted international instruments on human rights , Albania has associated itself with countries that are enforcing a number of national strategies and programmes focusing on specific population groups , especially women , children , persons in need and minorities , among others . In recent years , the Albanian Government has started to periodically submit reports to the committees of the six main United Nations human rights treaties and is taking their recommendations into serious consideration . It is our belief that these international mechanisms play a significant and important role as guardians of the common human values we have together adopted . Albania , as one of the 191 signatory countries of the Millennium Declaration , remains fully committed to implementation of the Millennium Development Goals , which have been properly reflected in a national strategy for social and economic development . The pattern of our sustained economic growth , which is at 6 to 7 per cent for the seventh consecutive year , is a good support base for the whole society to maintain higher standards of respect for human rights and to fight poverty and crime . I would like to take this opportunity to thank the United Nations specialized agencies for their valuable assistance in support of the implementation of these objectives nationwide and on a central and local level . The Albanian Government is pleased to note that an ever - healthier climate of confidence and relations of bilateral and multilateral cooperation are prevailing in the South - Eastern European region . The countries of the region are fully engaged in a process that will lead us clearly toward Euro - Atlantic integration and at the same time continually remove us from the extremist tendencies that caused a number of conflicts in the last decade . The regional policy of my Government is guided by the motto : ' the more integrated in the region , the more integrated in Europe . ' In implementing this policy , Albania is cooperating as never before with all the countries of the region by making borders less relevant , opening up to one regional market the implementation of free trade agreements and free movement corridors , and stimulating foreign direct investment . We are especially cooperating with the common fight against organized crime and all kinds of illegal trafficking . In the meantime , Albania is reinforcing its border management and control , guided by the European Union and NATO standards . My country will hold general parliamentary elections by the middle of next year . We are committed to doing all that is required to ensure that the election process is fully compatible with international standards for free and fair elections . To that end , we are committed to continuing to work with relevant specialized institutions on elections by fully implementing especially OSCE / Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights ( ODIHR ) recommendations . For us , the process and standards are more important than the results of the elections . In the context of strengthening regional cooperation , my country is committed to a more enhanced partnership with all regional organizations and initiatives that serve the promotion of good neighbourly relations ; the strengthening of regional peace , security and stability ; ensuring political support for integration into Euro - Atlantic structures , and attracting financing for national and regional projects in priority fields such as energy , transportation and telecommunications . On its path towards European integration , the South - East European region is still facing pending challenges , such as the future of Kosovo . Albania greatly appreciates the recent democratic and integration developments in Kosovo , thanks to the efforts of the respective peoples and the partnership of its self - governing institutions with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo ( UNMIK ) . Allow me at this point to congratulate Mr. Soren Jessen - Petersen , Special Representative for Kosovo of the United Nations Secretary - General , in assuming this very important duty .