Education and early loves Byron received his early formal education at Aberdeen Grammar School , and in August 1799 entered the school of Dr. William Glennie , in Dulwich . [ 17 ] Placed under the care of a Dr. Bailey , he was encouraged to exercise in moderation but not restrain himself from " violent " bouts in an attempt to overcompensate for his deformed foot . His mother interfered with his studies , often withdrawing him from school , with the result that he lacked discipline and his classical studies were neglected . In 1801 , he was sent to Harrow , where he remained until July 1805 . [ 6 ] An undistinguished student and an unskilled cricketer , he did represent the school during the very first Eton v Harrow cricket match at Lord 's in 1805 . [ 19 ] His lack of moderation was not restricted to physical exercise . Byron fell in love with Mary Chaworth , whom he met while at school , [ 6 ] and she was the reason he refused to return to Harrow in September 1803 . His mother wrote , " He has no indisposition that I know of but love , desperate love , the worst of all maladies in my opinion . In short , the boy is distractedly in love with Miss Chaworth . " [ 6 ] In Byron 's later memoirs , " Mary Chaworth is portrayed as the first object of his adult sexual feelings . " [ 20 ] Byron finally returned in January 1804 , [ 6 ] to a more settled period which saw the formation of a circle of emotional involvements with other Harrow boys , which he recalled with great vividness : " My school friendships were with me passions ( for I was always violent ) . " [ 21 ] The most enduring of those was with John FitzGibbon , 2nd Earl of Clare — four years Byron 's junior — whom he was to meet unexpectedly many years later in Italy ( 1821 ) . [ 22 ] His nostalgic poems about his Harrow friendships , Childish Recollections ( 1806 ) , express a prescient " consciousness of sexual differences that may in the end make England untenable to him . " [ 23 ] Letters to Byron in the John Murray archive contain evidence of a previously unremarked if short - lived romantic relationship with a younger boy at Harrow , John Thomas Claridge . John FitzGibbon , 2nd Earl of Clare Ah ! Sure some stronger impulse vibrates here , Which whispers friendship will be doubly dear To one , who thus for kindred hearts must roam , And seek abroad , the love denied at home . The following autumn , he went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , [ 24 ] where he met and formed a close friendship with the younger John Edleston . About his " protégé " he wrote , " He has been my almost constant associate since October , 1805 , when I entered Trinity College . His voice first attracted my attention , his countenance fixed it , and his manners attached me to him for ever . " In his memory Byron composed Thyrza , a series of elegies . [ 25 ] In later years , he described the affair as " a violent , though pure love and passion " . This statement , however , needs to be read in the context of hardening public attitudes toward homosexuality in England and the severe sanctions ( including public hanging ) against convicted or even suspected offenders . [ 26 ] The liaison , on the other hand , may well have been " pure " out of respect for Edleston 's innocence , in contrast to the ( probably ) more sexually overt relations experienced at Harrow School . [ 27 ] Byron spent three years at Trinity College , engaging in sexual escapades , boxing , horse riding and gambling . [ 28 ] Also while at Cambridge he formed lifelong friendships with men such as John Cam Hobhouse , who initiated him into the Cambridge Whig Club , which endorsed liberal politics , [ 28 ] and Francis Hodgson , a Fellow at King 's College , with whom he corresponded on literary and other matters until the end of his life .