The day it rained in the garden The first drops of rain fell onto the parched stones from a cloudless blue sky . They disappeared immediately , drunk down into the mineral silence . The garden paused , and everything held its breath and waited . More rain would come . Everyone knew , beyond belief or necessity that the time had come . And with it , the rain . Heavy oily drops bounced from leaf to grass to dusty ground , gathering in stems and folds on the way . Yet still the sky was a hard polished blue with not a cloud in sight . Still the garden held its breath . It would not be long now . A spattering of drops plucked memories from deep in the roots , shivering through shoots and tendrils , humus and stone . Wispy vapour trails marbled the blue surface above . And then it rained for good . We sat on the porch watching , no longer daring to dart out and leap around in the downfall as drops turned to torrents and the staccato tapping on the roof climaxed to a thunderous roar . Pools erupted and overflowed along the edges of the lawn , cascading around the raspberry canes and over the flower beds . Earthworms rose up from the water - laden earth where they could no longer breath and wriggled and struggled fro air on the surface , writhing and swimming for a safe haven . Water burst over the barrels and cans standing under the eaves and gutters , flooding the pathways , carrying away all that was n’t fixed solid and licking at the stairs to the back porch before climbing each step and lapping against the planks we were sitting on , a wooden raft surrounded by angry water and martial beat drum , drum , drumming on the roof above . We slipped out feet over the sides and when we felt the fish , some as big as logs , some as small as leaves , nibble at our feet , we leant over to watch them fraying and frolicking under the choppy surface . Waves lapped at the porch , washing away the boxes , and bowls , and the dog ’s basket . The rocking chair , the watering can , boxes of cuttings , and tied - up newspapers , all floated away as we slammed the kitchen door shut and retreated to the front room we gazed out at the river that the street had become . The sky was pewter smeared with charcoal now , and pressed down hard on the rooftops , slowly dissolving everything below . When the water rippled into the hallway , we splashed our way to the staircase and then up as it nipped at our heels . Outside the other houses were rocks surrounded by sea with mermaids swimming all around , flapping their scaly tails and hauling themselves up , to fall backwards into the crest of the oncoming waves . And as they swam they sang , their voices born on the winds and the salt and the rain , and we could hear them singing , He is coming , He is coming . And they combed their long hair in preparation . We waved and called , and they laughed and played , tantalising , their seaweed locks just out of reach . With a flick of the tail they were off , still singing , He is coming , He is coming , until their voices were lost in the noise of the rain and the water . A great whiskered head arose , then a belly , wet and sleek , long enough to wrap itself twice around the world . “ Is it him ? ” we asked each other , nudging elbows and climbing onto the chairs . We pulled off wet socks and shoes , letting them float away on the tide , before the great worm turned and the wake engulfed the creaking , cracking house . We clambered up onto the roof , sliding on the tiles and clinging to chimney stacks , sheltering our eyes from the driving downpour . The sky was black , and the stormy sea all the deepest , darkest blues and greens and greys and flecked with white where the sea - horses galloped . The waters broke making way for the gnarled head of a whale , spouting water high against the clouds before opening its whiskered maw and in a looming , booming voice called : He is coming , He is coming . The chimneys washed away , so we scrambled onto the blue - black back encrusted with barnacles and cockles like stars in a night sky and held on tight as he rode the waves , dipping and blowing , dipping and blowing . The wind and the rain tugged at our hair . And still it rained . We heard a fearsome creaking and cracking and before our eyes a great patch of sky peeled away , deeping down in the troughs and riding the crests with torn sails set against the wind . It was a galleon with masts like a dead man ’s fingers , tarred timbers groaning and a mermaid sat on the bow as he ship dipped and passed . He is coming , He is coming , she sang out . And just as the wash hit us , prising us from the whale ’s speckled back and down into the sea , someone threw down a knotted rope and we hung on for dear life . The singing sailors hauled us aboard chanting , He ’s a coming - ha ! He ’s a coming - ha ! And we fell onto the deck like fish bursting from a net . The Captain stood above us dressed in jewels and finery from a thousand pillagings .