You know , I remember , m – back in the psychedelic days , there was this poster of the scientist . I 've always been on a , kind of a crusade , for scientific uh , responsibility . Right ? And scientists are , are taking such control over the world these days , uh with their n- , you know , not the scientists , but what they 've invented . And the way it 's marketed , and the way we 're d- — we develop needs for it . And I remember this pf- cartoon I saw w- , of , of , it was called The Scientist . And it had this , this wonderful stone statue , about twenty stories tall , of a naked man , and a naked woman , intertwined with each other , hugging each other , full frontal , and their arms wrapped around each other , and then they s- — they – they looked like they were so intertwined , and they spiraled down and , and they 're a s- — they 're a statue . Right . Hm . Made out of stone . And they 're and the whole base of the statue is crumbling . Right ? And it 's just like rubble , f- like from , just below the knees , down , was just kind of rubble . But the rest of it was all real clear , a few ottle- — some of it was chipped off , you know , it was old but , and d- — and down at the bottom , of this , this rubble , was this little man who was a scientist . And he had this big magnifying glass . And he was looking at the rubble . Looking with his head down . Hm . Not looking up at the statue , and seeing the love , and the the – the – symbol there , but looking down at the crumbs , you know . Hm . At the rubble at the bottom . With his magnifying glass . And , and , to me that , that always symbolized , kind of rather clearly , the limitations of the scientific method . Well . Whi- — if it does n't take into account the to- — the the the whole human experience , and , including , the unbelievable parts of it . The parts that are just legend . And myth . And , and uh , alluded to . You mean the theories . And , and the psychedelic experiences , and the subjective . Oh , on that side . You know , and insanity , and , what , I mean . Well . You know they — they 've got to take ac- into account , uh , the East , with all its , with all its fantastic discoveries . But , you ca n't — but you ca n't look at the stars with a microscope . And science is a microscope . Each p- scientist has their , their field of um , expertise , and if they 're gon na go , if they 're gon na stretch out far enough into the — the unknown where they can find something new , they have to do it in a straight line . They ca n't do it in all directions at once . That 's true . Because then you run into things that we already know . So the problem is communication between s- — But they 're doing it , they 're doing it with mathematics . Right ? I mean . Well . N- no . But the comm- , problem is , communication between the branches of science . Mhm . I think . That 's true . Cause , who 's gon na be able to hold , all that knowledge , and make the connections ? Well , the philosophers , and the spiritual leaders , and , I mean , cause , f- the stuff can be understand , understood . The goals . Those people can tell you . Or the , or the cutting — cutting edge , can be understand — understood intellectually . But those people ca n't tell you the details . They know the whole structure , but see . Well the — It 's like both sides . You have to have somebody looking at the details . Ya got to have a leader . And somebody looking at the — And you got to have , a bunch of workers . You know ? Yeah . And you got ta have somebody . Right . Who d- is n't necessarily inclined to deal with the details that much , who 's guiding , those who are willing to sit there . I guess that 's the problem . And make all the — We do n't have a guider . Yeah . There 's no l- , there 's no lead , or there 's no focus . Yeah . That 's right . And — and uh , you know , I think , I think that , one of the reasons that there 's been no focus is because , oh , everybody accepted the scientific method as the best tool that we have , and was kinda letting the scientific method be the — be the leader . Mhm . The — the – w- you know , just continue inventorying and — Well those people who are doing research . Continue inventorying , cataloging , experimenting . You know , documenting , uh , uh , whatever . And , instead of , instead of uh , uh coming at it from another direction . Trying to find , trying to find , uh , trying to find ways to , to , like with with Einstein for example , you know , uh , it seemed to me , he was trying to f- — t- he was exper- experimenting with , with new ways of doing things , you know . Well thinking about things . Oh — uh and thinking about things , and he was trying to — he w- — I think he was ultimately trying to , trying to discover the speed of his own thought . Hm . You know , I mean , he was like , really off into wonderful abstract notions , that were all based in a peaceful world . You know ? That could n't exist unless he was secure that we had a peaceful world or that that peace was part of it . Of what he was about . And , so much of today 's technology is soulless and has nothing to do with peace . It has to do with , just generally , chewing up , you know , consumerism basically and — . Mhm . Chewing up — ch- n- — j- – chewing up new w- — uh , chewing up the human experience , and turning it into , some kind of consumer need .