Replication in Second Language Research : Narrative and Systematic Reviews and Recommendations for the Field Replication studies are considered by many to play a fundamental role in any scientific endeavor . When using the same materials and procedures as a previous study , replication studies serve to test the reliability of the previous study ’s findings . When altering specific methodological or participant characteristics of a previous study , they serve to test generalizability of the earlier findings under different conditions . One indication of the importance of replication is found in the 50 or more calls for replication research in the field of second language ( L2 ) research alone ( see references for 50 calls and commentaries in Appendix S1 in the Supporting Information online ) : from Santos ( 1989 ) through Polio and Gass 1997 to very recent proposals for specific replication studies , such as Vandergrift and Cross 2017 and even a book - length treatment ( Porte , 2012 ) . Beyond these calls , efforts to actively promote and facilitate replication studies have also emerged . For example , the Instruments for Research into Second Languages ( IRIS ) repository ( http://www.irisdatabase.org ) was established in 2011 and holds , at the time of writing , over 3,800 materials that can be used for replication , among other purposes , in L2 research ( Marsden & Mackey , 2014 ; Marsden , Mackey , & Plonsky , 2016 ) . The Open Science Framework ( https://osf.io ) , also established in 2011 , provides a web infrastructure to facilitate collaboration and has been used for large replication efforts in psychology ( e.g. , Open Science Collaboration , 2015 ) , which continue to make waves in academia ( Laws , 2016 ; Lindsay , 2015 ; Martin & Clarke , 2017 ) and the general media ( Baker , 2015 ; Devlin , 2016 ) . In some fields , a flourishing metascience , that is , the scientific study of science ( see Munafò et al. , 2017 ) , has included syntheses assessing the quantity and nature of replication efforts , for example , in education ( Makel & Plucker , 2014 and in psychology ( Makel et al. , 2012 ) . The driving force behind this battery of calls , commentaries , infrastructure , and metascience is a perceived crisis in the state of replication research . The severe concerns underpinning the alleged crisis have several dimensions relating to : (a) the ( small ) amount of published replication research ; (b) the ( poor ) quality of replication research ; and (c) the ( lack of ) reproducibility , which refers to the extent to which findings can ( not ) be reproduced in replication attempts that have been undertaken . These concerns speak to the very core of science , raising fundamental questions about the validity and reliability of our work . Indeed , some commentators have called replication the “ gold standard ” of research evidence ( Jasny , Chin , Chong , & Vignieri , 2011 , p. 1225 ) and a “ linchpin of the scientific process ” ( Let ’s replicate , 2006 , p. 330 ) . In the field of L2 research , given the importance of replication and the 50 calls for replication in L2 research that we identified , one might expect a substantial number of published replication studies by now . However , a perceived lack of prestige , excitement , and originality of replication plagues L2 research ( Porte , 2012 ) , as it does other disciplines ( Berez - Kroeker et al. , 2017 ; Branco , Cohen , Vossen , Ide , & Calzolari , 2017 ; Chambers , 2017 ; Schmidt , 2009 ) , and these perceptions are thought to have caused , at least in part ( directly or indirectly ) , alleged low rates and a poor quality of published replication studies . However , a systematic metascience on replication research has not yet been established in the field of L2 research , leaving a poor understanding of the actual number and nature of replication studies that have been published . The current study begins to address this gap through narrative and systematic reviews . The narrative review considers challenges in replication research and is largely informed by commentaries and metascience from psychology , given that the cognitive and social subdomains of psychology are highly influential in L2 research , and also from education , another key sister discipline . The narrative review is organized around four broad themes : (a) the quantity of replication research , (b) the nature of replication research , (c) the relationship between initial and replication studies , and (d) the interpretation and extent of reproducibility of the findings of initial studies . To gain insight into these issues in the context of L2 research , the systematic review provides a synthesis of L2 studies in journal articles that self - labeled as replications . The research questions and methods of the systematic review were largely determined by the narrative review but also emerged through the design and piloting of the coding instrument . Finally , we offer further discussion and 16 recommendations for future replication work that draw on our narrative and systematic reviews and on our experience of carrying out multisite ( Morgan - Short et al. , 2018 ) 1 and single site ( Faretta - Stutenberg & Morgan - Short , 2011 ; Marsden , Williams , & Liu , 2013 ; McManus & Marsden , 2017 ; Morgan - Short , Heil , Botero - Moriaty , & Ebert , 2012 ) replications . We start from the widely agreed premise that testing the reproducibility of findings should have an essential role in the testing and refinement of theory , at least for hypothesis - testing epistemologies that seek to ascertain generalizability and for other epistemologies in which constructs are deemed to be definable and observable . Thus , our overall aim is to provide conceptual clarification and an empirical base for future discussion and production of replication studies , with a view to improving the amount and quality of L2 replication research .