Ichiyō Higuchi Ichiyō Higuchi ( 樋口 一葉 Higuchi Ichiyō , May 2 , 1872 – November 23 , 1896 ) was a pen name of Japanese author Natsu Higuchi ( 樋口 奈津 Higuchi Natsu ) , also known as Natsuko Higuchi ( 樋口 夏子 Higuchi Natsuko ) . Specializing in short stories , she was one of the first important writers to appear in the Meiji period ( 1868 - 1912 ) and Japan 's first prominent woman writer of modern times . She wrote relatively little as a result of living a brief life — she died at 24 — but her stories had a large impact on Japanese literature and she is still appreciated by the Japanese public today . Efforts to become a writer She , her mother , and younger sister made ends meet by doing needlework , washing , and other jobs . In 1892 , after seeing the success of a classmate , Kaho Tanabe , who wrote a novel , Higuchi decided to become a novelist to support her family . Nevertheless , her initial efforts at writing fiction were in the form of a short story , a form to which she would remain true . In 1891 she met her future advisor who would help , she assumed , this poet - turned - fiction - writer and connect her with editors : Tosui Nakarai . She fell in love with him right away , not knowing that , at 31 , he had a reputation as a womanizer . Nor did she realize that he wrote popular literature which aimed to please the general public and in no way wished to be associated with serious literature . Her mentor did not return her passionate , if discreet , love for him , and instead treated her as a younger sister . This failed relationship would become a recurrent theme in Higuchi 's fiction . Eventually , she got the break she was so eager for : her first stories were published in a minor newspaper under her pen name , Ichiyo Higuchi . The stories from this first period ( 1892 – 94 ) suffered from the excessive influence of Heian poetry . Higuchi felt compelled to demonstrate her classical literary training . The plots were thin , there was little development of character and they were loaded down by excessive sentiment , especially when compared to what she was writing concurrently in her diary . But she was developing rapidly . Several of her trademark themes appear ; for example , the triangular relationship among a lonely , beautiful , young woman who has lost her parents , a handsome man who has abandoned her ( and remains in the background ) , and a lonely and desperate ragamuffin who falls in love with her . Another theme Higuchi repeated was the ambition and cruelty of the Meiji middle class . The story " Umoregi " ( " In Obscurity " ) signaled Higuchi 's arrival as a professional writer . It was published in the prestigious journal Miyako no Hana in 1892 , only nine months after she had started writing in earnest . Her work was noticed and she was recognized as a promising new author . Her last years In 1893 , Higuchi , her mother and her sister abandoned their middle class house and , with a grim determination to survive , moved to a poor neighborhood where they opened a stationery store that before long failed . Their new dwelling was a five - minute walk from Tokyo 's ill - famed red - light district , the Yoshiwara . Her experience living in this neighborhood would provide material for several of her later stories , especially " Takekurabe " , ( literally , " Comparing heights " ; " Child 's Play " in the Robert Lyons Danly translation ; also called " Growing Up " in the Edward Seidensticker translation . ) The stories of her mature period ( 1894 – 96 ) were not only marked by her experience living near the red - light district and greater concern over the plight of women , but also by the influence of Ihara Saikaku , a 17th - century writer , whose stories she had recently discovered . His distinctiveness lay in great part in his acceptance of low - life characters as worthwhile literary subjects . What Higuchi added was a special awareness of suffering and sensitivity . To this period belong " Ōtsugomori " ( " On the Last Day of the Year " ) , " Nigorie " ( " Troubled Waters " ) , " Wakare - Michi " ( " Separate Ways " ) , " Jūsan'ya " ( " The Thirteenth Night " ) and " Takekurabe " ( " Child 's Play " ) . The last two are considered her best work . With these last stories her fame spread throughout the Tokyo literary establishment . In her humble home she was visited by other writers , students of poetry , admirers , the curious , critics , and editors requesting her collaboration . But between constant interruptions and frequent headaches , Higuchi stopped writing . As her father and one of her brothers had before her , she had caught tuberculosis . She died on November 23 , 1896 , at the age of twenty - four . Higuchi 's likeness adorns the Japanese 5000 yen banknote as of fall 2004 , becoming the third woman to appear on a Japanese banknote , after Empress Jingū in 1881 and Murasaki Shikibu in 2000 . Her best - known stories have been made into movies .