Dr. Guruswamy . My Lords , thank you . My Lord the Chief Justice may recognize , my Lords , that the Hindu Marriage Act is not an issue necessarily of personal law : it is statutory law . And we will demonstrate that . The terms of the Constitution , the reform of the Hindu Marriage Act , has always been in the context of statutory law . So , my Lords , to that extent and that extent only in the context of statutory law and making statutory law workable , because my Lords will know , my Lords , that the origin of the Hindu Marriage Act , the Hindu Code , did something that was not permitted in sacramental Hindu law , which is inter-caste marriage , in -- sagotra marriage , divorce , inheritance ... Dr. Guruswamy , but there 's also … there may be some amount of sage wisdom in also going about our interpretative task in an incremental manner because otherwise , do we then confine ourselves only to the Hindu Marriage Act ? What about the Parsi Marriage Act ? What about the Muslim law ? What about the Jews ? What about the Buddhists ? A lot of other communities . Therefore , perhaps one option for the court because … the Constitution itself and the law is itself evolving . So the court has to be mindful of the fact that we are doing by process of interpretation what you are calling upon us to do . So there may be some element of judicial discretion in perhaps going incrementally , covering a canvas for the present , which would substantially then ... assuming that even there you are right , because you have to hear the other side , confine yourself to this incremental canvas and then allow society to evolve . Allow Parliament 's perceptions to evolve over a period of time because Parliament is also responding to the evolution of society over a period of time . We ca n't deny the fact that there is undoubtedly the legislative element also involved , which is why the states , the Parliament , despite … having regard to that , we need to balance out various facets . So this might be perhaps one way forward . The only thing I 'll say to this ... So we do n't have to decide everything , to decide something in this case . No , no , my Lords , I follow , I follow . The only thing ... Yes , my Lord ? One is the channel pointed out by Mr. Rohatgi in a restrictive sense that only construe the Special Marriage Act . If it founds favor with us , it 'll give us the status of marriage . If it does not , he rightly said , you are out . Therefore if other issues at all arise or do n't arise , will depend on how we interpret this aspect . Other issues will survive for another day . Or may not survive for the time being for another day , depending on what view we take on this core issue . And in the wisdom , as the Chief Justice said , sometimes incremental changes in issues of social and societal ramifications are possibly a better course . There is a time for everything ... there is time for some things to come . Therefore , what was being suggested was , uh , can we , for the time being , confine it only to this limited issue ? Do n't step into … let me complete … do n't step into Personal Law issues under different religious norms . Do n't get into any of those issues , but only say that , can the Special Marriage Act be interpreted in a manner by reading into it a general gender - neutral situation , period . Can I say , and perhaps you can then help us , you can assist us . And we 'll ask the Solicitor also to assist us on how we can sort of develop the notion of a civil union which really finds recognition in our statute , namely the Special Marriage Act , you see , because now , for instance , you know , I 'm sure you would n't also deny the fact that between the time that Navtej was delivered and today , our society has found much greater acceptance , say , of same - sex relationships for the last five years that we have seen it unfold . And that 's very positive because , you know , you find that there is a greater acceptance and acceptance in our universities . And by the way , our universities do n't consist of only urban kids ; they also come from the smaller , smaller areas . Yes , but there is this acceptance which is evolving . So , you know , in this evolving consensus , the court is also playing a dialogical role to create that consensus and move towards a more equal future by being conscious of our own limitations , which you ca n't deny the legislative arena . The only request I would make is that the question may be left open to be adjudicated . Obviously , we 're not going to reject what we do n't . We can always confine our canvas and then not reject . Yes , obviously not . And that is not necessary for the court to do at all . The second point is simply this , that marriage is not only as if that were not … But leave broader and broader issues for an evolving future . Yes , but marriage is not only a question of dignity , as if that were not enough . It is also a bouquet of rights that LGBTQ people are being denied post - Johar , right ? Those rights are simple things : bank accounts , life insurance , medical insurance . I for instance , frankly … Rental accommodation ... I can not buy SCBA medical insurance . I am a member of the SCBA Bar . I can not buy my family medical insurance from the SCBA . So this is the reality of how rights are exercised . Rights are exercised when you are able to protect your relationships . One facet of that right is the constitutional value of dignity , equality , fraternity . The other facet of that right is the day to day business of life , and the day to day business of life is all of those things . Now when we look at law in India — and all common law is premised like this — that most rights flow from this notion of blood relationships , i.e. , either being born into the family or being married .