Strayer knows much of what he knows because of the experiments he runs at his Applied Cognition Laboratory in Salt Lake City . Often , he measures how people perform one task once they are given a second task . We think about multitasking as trying to do two separate , cognitively based tasks at the same time . A classic example , one that just about everybody attempts to do , is drive a car and talk on a cell phone . We do n’t do that well , and more and more people have these gadgets in the car they bring with them , or the car itself becomes a platform for multitasking , and we do n’t do it well . So , it ’s probably a big source for the injuries and fatalities and crashes on the road . Now , it would seem obvious — at least to me , maybe I ’m wrong — that not all multitasking is either difficult , and certainly not as dangerous , as driving in a car and trying to do something else that ’s cognitively and / or physically demanding . Can you give me some examples of what you see as benign or , in fact , productive multitasking ? I would actually just say that even the simplest things , like walking and talking , which you ’d think would be pretty automatic , turn out to be tasks that compete . So , if you ’re walking without talking , as soon as you start talking , you ’ll see that the pace of your walk changes , and you may be more likely to trip . Anything that is depending on attention to be able to process the world is susceptible to dual - task interference , or problems associated with multitasking . A simple example we give is saying the letters of the alphabet : A , B , C , D , E , or counting , one , two , three , four , five . Those are easy . But if you try and combine them and do something like , A1 , B2 , C3 , D4 , you ’ll quickly find that that becomes difficult , you start to forget where you are . And those are two super - well - learned tasks that you can do by themselves . But when you try and mix them together , you get all jumbled . As soon as you start to multitask , performance on both of the tasks start to degrade . Now , how much of that is a function of attempting to multitask versus the fact that we learn habits and patterns and memorize things that become rote , that we do n’t need to engage our cognitive process at all ? You can become automatic at certain aspects of performance . When your performance is habitual or automatic , it is less dependent on attention . So , a lot of things kind of just happen without consciously thinking about them . But new things , new activities or new environments , demand you to pay attention , to allocate the prefrontal cortex to process some of that information that ’s new and novel . That ’s the real problem , is that if you ’re always in a situation where everything ’s exactly routine , you ’re not stressing the parts of the brain that are responsible for multitasking . But as soon as you have some novel activity — like talking , like driving a car , riding a bicycle — you have to pay attention to what you ’re doing . You have to engage the prefrontal executive attentional networks . Do you know anything , or think much about , multitasking and multitasking failures in other high - stakes settings beyond driving , whether it ’s military decisions or political decisions , business decisions ? So we ’ve looked in the medical domain , medical human factors : you can see it in terms of , say , delivery of medicine at a pharmacy . If the pharmacist is constantly being interrupted with calls , they ’re going to fill the prescription incorrectly . If an anesthesiologist or a surgeon is distracted by the technology in the operating room , that can create a problem . In the operating room , it ’s not just the phone , although that ’s sometimes present , but you have all the displays and technology . Each one of those are creating alarms that creates this whirl of noise , and alerts and distractions that compete for the anesthesiologist ’s and the surgeon ’s attention . So I ’ve been reading about how the modern worker , let ’s say in the U.S. — they could be in marketing , they could be at a nonprofit , could be in finance , whatever — that if you ’re working with a computer , which describes many , many , many , many of us now obviously , that one big change in the last 15 or 20 years is how many pieces of software and how many platforms are — I do n’t want to say fighting for your attention necessarily , that sounds a little a little more pejorative than I mean it to be , but how in the course of your workday , you need to switch and switch and switch and switch . We all may have multiple pieces of communication software , multiple pieces of productivity software , and so on . Can you talk about that , what seems to be a relatively low - stakes environment — the workplace in a marketing firm or whatever — but how our attention is being carved up during the course of the day ? I mean , the research shows that you have a loss of productivity when you ’re trying to multitask — just the opposite of what you think . So you may think “ If I ’m multitasking , I ’m going to get a lot more things done . ” But what happens is , a big chunk of our day is lost as we ’re switching from one task to the other to the other . What they find is that the best way to be productive in the office is to try and focus on one task at a time , focus on just sending that memo out , writing that email , doing whatever that operation is for a short period of time , then take a break and then come back to it . Do n’t try and juggle back and forth because you ’ll get confused , you ’ll get lost , you ’ll be this — “ Where was I ? ” kind of switch cost .