Interview with LibriVox founder Hugh McGuire Sunday , May 28 , 2006 The LibriVox website features a catalog of about a hundred completed books , including books in other languages like German , Hebrew , and Japanese . Why did you decide to take the acoustic fate of public domain works into your own hands , and how did you go about it ? I think that a vibrant public domain is very important to a healthy world , and so I thought : here 's a way to help the cause . I launched LibriVox , emailed some friends and some podcasters who where doing literary stuff , and invited them to record a chapter of Joseph Conrad 's Secret Agent . Things have grown steadily since . By the way , AKMA was the first guy I know of to do something like this , with Lawrence Lessig 's Free Culture . That , I think , started my thinking about this , but it took a while for the idea to crystallize . Hugh McGuire with some books that have not yet been acoustically liberated . Do you personally record audiobooks , and did you already do so before LibriVox ? LibriVox was my first experience recording audiobooks . I still do the odd chapter , but i am a bit delinquent in finishing some of them these days ! Is there a particular LibriVox book which you think stands out because of the quality , the overall effort involved , its popularity , or for some other reason ? My personal favourite is Notes from the Underground ( Dostoyevsky ) . Other random good ones : Austen , Jane . Pride and Prejudice Christie , Agatha . The Mysterious Affair at Styles London , Jack . White Fang Macaulay , Thomas Babington . History of England ( Volume 1 , Chapter 1 ) Marx , Karl and Engels , Friedrich . The Communist Manifesto ( solo ) Twain , Mark . A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur 's Court ( solo ) Ed. : See the LibriVox catalog for a full index . Browsing the catalog , I find that the quality of the spoken audio varies greatly from text to text or even from chapter to chapter . If someone wanted to re-record a chapter because they did n't like the speaker , would you then offer two versions ? Yes . We take the Wikipedia approach : if you think it should be better , please help it be so . You 'll note we offer a couple of versions of some books . Indeed our weekly poetry project celebrates this diversity of voice : each week a new short poem is chosen and as many readers as wish to record a version , so you get 20 + versions of the same poem , a very interesting audio experience . Besides works whose copyright has expired , there is an increasing number of modern books available under Creative Commons and similar licenses . You mentioned Larry Lessig 's Free Culture , but it also includes some out of print titles by publishers who are open to the concept , such as O'Reilly . Do you want to limit the scope of LibriVox strictly to old public domain works , or do you have plans to include recent works under reasonably permissive licenses as well ? We are only doing public domain works , for a number of reasons , partly to keep simplicity in our copyright situation -- public domain means it s as simple as can be . CC makes things more complex . Also , there are other sites , notably podiobooks.com , which are better suited to CC works than LibriVox . we find it makes things clear and easy to say : published works , public domain , and leave it at that . As far as I can tell , podiobooks.com features " free as in beer " content — material which you can download , but which is n't under a free content license . Instead of " public domain " , would n't " free content " work just as well , using something like the Free Content Definition to limit the scope ? This needs more discussion obviously : we chose public domain because the texts we use are public domain and we did n't want to add new restrictions , especially not non-commercial , since already our recordings are being used for a number of commercialish projects ( I ca n't recall any specific project names , but some pay - education sites use LV stuff ) . That 's good and well and fine with us . We do n't want to have to give anyone permission to use our recordings , we want anyone to use them for whatever they want . Also , for the thing to work you need to have many dedicated volunteers willing to do the management ( onerous ) and many willing to do the reading . While Pride and Prejudice will attract many readers , I do n't know about O'Reilly 's latest tome on XML ... though I might be wrong .