Neuroscience finals . Hi ! Good morning , it is Monday May 3rd 10:38 a.m. I have a meeting at 10:45 so in a few minutes with one of my TFs about my project . I 'm gon na meet with her quickly and see if she has any feedback and then I 'll be working on chem and neuro . She 's not here yet . Hi ! I 'm so sorry , I went to the section link . I was waiting there , I was like " uhm , did I get the time wrong ? " But okay , this makes a lot more sense . My hair is in a bun . I took a shower . I should let it dry but I 'm too lazy to take it out . It 's a new day , a little rainy outside . But I actually like when it 's gloomy for studying because then I feel like there 's nothing else you could be doing , so you might as well just stay inside and work . So I have some coffee and I 'll be focusing entirely on chem and neuro today , I think . Full day of studying , not really much to update you all on . Hello ! It is 2:25 a.m. I 've just been studying for neuroscience , my neuro exam . It 's currently 2:25 a.m. on Wednesday . It 's raining . I 've been doing a semi - Pomodoro technique but I 've been doing like working from like half an hour to an hour and then taking like 10 minute breaks . I do it based off of what I 'm trying to get done because I have my neuroscience final study schedule . These are the things I 've gotten done , so I got this done , this done , this done . I 'm currently working on this and then I 'll try to get to this , but if I ca n't then I can do it tomorrow . Just wanted to show you . This is realistic . I 'm up very late so I wanted to show that , finals as a college student , you know . So I 'm going to do what I can and then maybe finish like one or two more lectures and then I will start taking a look at chem . I will be up for a little while longer . Hi Kat ! A lot of the notes that I had taken from our last meeting and being more of a cause or like leading to memory 's importance for each of the sources , I — I essentially changed it to um " it 's the one persistent element of our existence that gives meaning to the inheritance of memory " . How do we remember ? I asked this not only as a question of the methods , but also of the circumstances . Oh my god , I 'm so tired . I accidentally posted a video I meant to schedule . So now I have to post about it . I like deleted Instagram and like was n't really checking social media too much this week , but now I have to redownload it , so I can post about it . Finals ! Hello ! It is May 7th Friday May 7th the day of my final , currently 9:46 a.m. I 'm going to be taking it at 10 a.m. , so I have 15 minutes . The reason I 'm taking it like this early is because I have my med school class at two to four thirty , so we have three hours 45 minutes to take it . I 'm gon na take it at ten , so I can finish around like 1:45 in time for my class . I 'm nervous . I 'm really nervous . I do n't feel too great about it , but I 'm going to be kind to myself with this . It was a really weird tiring semester , I think , relatively , compared to last semester , so you know , it is what it is . I 'll try my best and am just gon na take the test , move on , it 's just one more test . Wish me luck ! Hello ! Hi ! How are you ? Watching BTS . That 's lovely . Hi guys ! I finished my neuroscience exam a little bit after noon . It is now two o'clock and today is my friend Megumi 's birthday . If you know Megumi then you 'll know that she is one of my best friends . She also surprised me on my birthday , so now it 's my turn . I 'm going to be ordering some donuts to pick up and then head over to her house and surprise her . Let 's see . Honey - glazed . Okay , perfect . Okay , it 's a 16 minute walk . I will now head over . Hello ! Well , that 's exciting ! Really ? But you should come outside ! Oh , well , I think you should check your front door . What ? Who , me ? Not at all , I just think it 's really nice outside . Oh my god ! Hi ! Happy birthday ! Thank you ! Here you go ! And some tulips ! What the heck ? We gon na hug . Miyuki , you 're gon na be on YouTube on that camera ! Do you want to say hi ? Hi ! Let me grab my camera . Hi ! How old is she turning today ? 20 ! She 's turning 20 ! Yay ! Put it on YouTube ! Yeah , should I put this on YouTube ? Uh huh . Which one should we start with ? Start with cinnamon sugar first . Cinnamon sugar first ? Do you want to have a piece ? No . No ? That one 's the vegan one ? Yeah , I think . I think these three ? These three , I think . Are vegan ? Yeah , mh hm . Caramel , salted caramel . Honey - glazed . Basil lime blackberry ? Blackberry basil lime . Yeah , well same ingredients . Yeah , well , no matters . Dark chocolate Belgian dark chocolate . Belgian dark chocolate . Mh hm . Wow ! Looks good ! Okay , so . You want to film – you want to film the outro ? Can you see yourself ? Uh huh . Alright , it 's recording so you can start now ! Hi . I 'm Miyuki . I 'm eating a cinnamon roll , a a cinnamon donut . You like it ? It tastes good ? Oh yeah , uh huh . Awesome ! So , you said that you had an outro that you 've been practicing ? Oh yeah Do you want to give it a try ? Sure . The floor is yours . What do you say at the end of the video ? What should the people watching do ? Subscribe and press the like button and then afterwards you can do comments and then you subscribe to the channel . Yay , thank you so much ! You wan na say bye ? Bye ! Bye !