Distant Rhythm : Automatic Enjambment Detection on Four Centuries of Spanish Sonnets Pablo Ruiz Fabo pabloruizfabo@gmail.com Lattice Lab , CNRS , France Clara Martínez Cantón cimartinez@flog.uned.es Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia , Spain Thierry Poibeau thierry.poibeau@ens.fr Lattice Lab , CNRS , France Introduction Enjambment takes place when a syntactic unit is broken up across two lines of poetry ( Domínguez Caparrós , 2000 : 103 ) , giving rise to different stylistic effects ( e.g. increased emphasis on elements of the broken - up phrase , or contrast between those elements ) , or creating double interpretations for the enjambed lines ( García - Paje , 1991 ) . In Spanish poetry , the syntactic configurations under which enjambment takes place have been described extensively , and detailed studies on the use of enjambment by individual authors exist ( see Martínez Cantón , 2011 for an overview ) including , among others Quilis ( 1964 ) , Domínguez Caparrós , ( 2000 ) , Paraíso , ( 2000 ) , Spang ( 1983 ) for a description of enjambment , and Alarcos ( 1966 ) , Senabre ( 1982 ) , Luján ( 2006 ) , Martínez Fernández ( 2010 ) for case - studies on a single author . However , a larger - scale study to identify enjambment across hundreds of authors spanning several centuries , enabling distant reading ( Moretti , 2013 ) , was not previously available . Given that need , we have developed software , based on Natural Language Processing , that automatically identifies enjambment in Spanish , and applied it to a corpus of approx. 3750 sonnets by ca. 1000 authors , from the 15th to the 19th century . What is the interest of such large - scale automatic analyses of enjambment ? First , the literature shows a debate about which specific syntactic units can be considered to trigger enjambment , if split across two lines , and whether lexical and syntactic criteria are sufficient to identify enjambment . Second , the stylistic effects that enjambment permits are also an object of current research ( Martínez Fernández , 2010 ) . Systematically collecting large amounts of enjambment examples provides helpful evidence to assess scholars ’ current claims , and may stimulate novel analyses . Finally , our study complements Navarro ’s ( 2016 ) automatic metrical analyses of Spanish Golden Age sonnets , by covering a wider period and focusing on enjambment . The abstract is structured thus : First we provide the definition of enjambment adopted . Then , our corpus and system are described , followed by an evaluation of the system . Finally , findings on enjambment in our diachronic sonnet corpus are discussed . The project ’s website provides details omitted here for space reasons , including samples for the corpus , results , and other details . Enjambment in Spanish Syntactic and metrical units often match in poetry . However , this trend has been broken since antiquity for various reasons ( Parry ( 1929 ) on Homer , or Flores Gómez ( 1988 ) on early classical poetry ) . In Spanish tradition , enjambment ( in Spanish , " encabalgamiento " ) is considered to take place when a pause suggested by poetic form ( e.g. at the end of a line or across hemistichs ) occurs between strongly connected lexical or syntactic units , triggering an unnatural cut between those units . Quilis ( 1964 ) performed poetry reading experiments , proposing that the following strongly connected elements give rise to enjambment , should a poetic - form pause break them up : Lexical enjambment : Breaking up a word . We translated " lexical enjambment " from Quilis ’s terms " encabalgamiento léxico " or " tmesis " . Phrase - bounded enjambment : Within a phrase , breaking up sequences like " noun + adjective " , " verb + adverb " , " auxiliary verb + main verb " , among others . We translated " phrase - bounded enjambment " from " encabalgamiento sirremático " . Cross-clause enjambment : Between a noun antecedent and the pronoun heading the relative clause that complements the antecedent . We translated " cross-clause enjambment " from Quilis ’s " encabalgamiento oracional " . The project site includes Quilis ’s complete list of syntactic environments that can trigger enjambment , as well as the types identified by our system . Besides the enjambment types above , Spang ( 1983 ) noted that if a subject or direct object and their related verbs occur in two different lines of poetry , this can also feel unusual for a reader , even if the effect is less pronounced than in the environments identified by Quilis . To differentiate these cases from enjambment proper , Spang calls these cases " enlace " , translated here as " expansion " . Quilis ( 1964 ) was the only author so far to gather recitation - based experimental evidence on enjambment . His typology is still considered current , and was adopted by later authors , although complementary enjambment typologies have been proposed , as Martínez Cantón ( 2011 ) reviews . Our system identifies Quilis ’ types , besides Spang ’s expansion cases .