— Prologue — It had taken only a matter of hours for the Kethlan system to become a tumbling sea of debris ; the twisted and burnt - out remnants of a once glorious Imperial nation . An empire whose costly mistakes would for many years to come echo into every corner of the known galaxy . And with those mistakes would come death to billions of innocent , unsuspecting lives . A starfighter hurtled through the scattered metal , the pilot desperate to find a way to stop himself from joining the ever growing population of this interstellar graveyard . Jacques Chalmers was not alone in his frustration with the current situation , but he was doubtless one of the most panicked . He tried to steady himself as he began cycling once again through the available display options for his starfighter 's radar system . His anxiety continued to grow with each passing second , every change of the screen doing nothing to abate it . He stopped midway through the calibration and glanced out of his cockpit . The scene was the same as it had been a few moments ago and it brought him no comfort . He could n't count the number of capital ships that dominated the Enemy 's frontline . Twenty ? Thirty ? Fifty ? In his years of service to the Imperial Naval Forces he had never seen anything like it , not even in archive war footage . The enormous forms of the battleships loomed like giants atop a hill , staring down upon a tiny village below . Then there were the Enemy starfighters themselves : hundreds at least , swarming about like a huge wall of locusts . Knowing that he had already been flying straight for longer than was advisable , Chalmers altered his course to attempt to throw off any pursuers . * * * Not long before he had been standing on the flight deck of his deployment carrier , amongst the other pilots , his heart pumping in his ears , his hands sweating as he awaited the order to board his fighter . Chalmers saw his friends run forward as their names were called out , scrambling into cockpits , pulling on helmets and performing last - minute safety checks . Though most hid it well , he was convinced they were all as nervous and scared as he was - knowing they could well be speeding only to their own deaths . As he watched his friends ' fighters hurtle down the catapult , his commanding officer had addressed the last remaining pilots still standing on the flight deck . “ Right , listen up , ” he started . “ This is where we must make our stand . The Enemy can not be allowed to advance any further . Tonight we fight the battle for Kethlan and for the Imperium ; the battle for our survival . Hundreds of millions of lives are depending on our actions here . Make them proud ! ” Hundreds of millions ? thought Chalmers . Is that all that 's left ? A few months ago it was billions . This day had crept ever closer as cities , planets and then entire star systems had fallen to the Enemy ; to those damned Pandorans ; to the Senate 's mistake . How many of his friends had he lost over these last few terrible months ? Had they died fast or were they now suffering a fate far worse . . ? As his CO continued to pump them up for the critical battle , Chalmers ' head was filled with visions of row upon row of black - clad soldiers . A white emblem resided on their right arms and left breast , an all - encompassing full black helmet upon their heads , its smooth form negating all facial features . Two bright red oval spheres were set into an eye - level groove that ran all around , the “ eyes ” themselves slanted into a menacing and intimidating scowl . One of the soldiers turned to face him , the ruby - like eyes seeming to pierce his very soul . He felt his hand tighten on the flight helmet he held , swallowing hard . “ Daniels ! Peterson ! Foster ! Brown ! Rye ... ” a voice called out above the other sounds that filled the flight deck . Feet moved and Chalmers felt his stomach lurch . His name would be called soon . He felt a sense of doom . If the Empire could not stop the Enemy before , what hope did they have now ? The Enemy 's power had grown exponentially and they had crushed everything in their path with harrowing little effort . Chalmers was feeling forced to accept the truth : they were all that was left of the Imperial Naval Forces . This was a battle that could not be won ; not now , not ever . “ ... Tyler ! Flynn ! Chalmers ! King ! Golden ! Blair ... ” At the sound of his name , Chalmers felt himself move robotically , his mind screaming in protest against what his legs were doing . He ran over to the waiting starfighter , threw on his helmet and begun ascending the ladder into the cockpit . Zombie - like he sank down into the seat , watching as if from outside his body as his hands buckled him in , his fingers flip switches , press buttons , acknowledge questions and confirmations on the screens before him . Moments later , his craft was taxied to the catapult and before long he 'd found himself out in space and into the thick of battle . At that moment , his worst fears had not only been altogether realised , but far exceeded .