Isfahan Isfahan ( Persian : اصفهان , also known as Esfahan ) is a city in central Iran , south of Tehran and is the capital of Isfahan Province . The Persians call it " Nesf - e - Jahan " , meaning " Half The World " . Due to its beautiful hand - painted tiling and magnificent public square , it is considered to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world . An ancient town and capital of Persia from 1598 to 1722 , it was long noted for its fine carpets and silver filigree . Today , textile and steel mills take their place . Its architecture , tree - lined boulevards and relaxed pace make it one of the highlights of Iran . Understand The city is 430 km south of Tehran at the foothills of the Zagros mountain range . The city enjoys a temperate climate and regular seasons . Isfahan is located on the main north - south and east - west routes crossing Iran . The city has an Armenian Quarter called Jolfa ( originally called New Julfa ) established by Shah Abbas I in the 1600s after he destroyed the prosperous Armenian town of Julfa in Armenia and forced all of the Armenians to move to Persia , mostly to Isfahan . They were allocated land and rebuilt a prosperous community that was a key part of an Armenian trade network extending from Singapore and India to Venice and Amsterdam . Today the quarter still has many Armenian Churches , an Armenian school , shops and Armenian residents . Get in By plane Isfahan International Airport or Isfahan Shahid Beheshti ( IATA : IFN ) was a military air base before the revolution . There are daily flights to Tehran and Mashhad in Iran . There are also flights to Damascus , Dubai , Kuwait and Istanbul . From the Airport you can take cab for c. IRR 200,000 to the city centre . Since most people are going there anyway , you can always ask people to share taxi . See Squares and streets Naqsh-e Jahan Square 1 Naqsh-e Jahan Square . Also known as shah square or imam square - 1602 ( Meidan Emam ) . The square contains two mosques , a palace , and the bazaar . The square is the largest historical public square in the world after Tiananmen Square in Beijing and it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site . The square is surrounded by buildings from the Safavid era . This a very popular place for locals to picnic on Friday and holiday evenings . 2 Chaharbagh Boulevard . 1596 , dating from the Saffavid era , the avenue is the most historically famous in all of Persia . Meydan Kohne . Shahshahan Square . Mosques Shah Mosque Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque , interior of the dome The stunning mosques of Isfahan are among the most beautiful and interesting in the world . 3 Imam Mosque ( called Shah Mosque before the revolution ) , Naqsh-e Jahan Square , south side . Built during the Safavid period , it is an excellent example of Islamic architecture of Iran , and regarded as one of the masterpieces of Persian Architecture . It is registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site . Its splendour is mainly due to the beauty of its seven - colour mosaic tiles and calligraphic inscriptions . 4 Sheikh Lotf Allah Mosque , Naqsh-e Jahan Square , east side . One of the architectural masterpieces of Safavid Iranian architecture , this mosque is considered to be the most beautiful in Iran . Built in 1602 by Shah Abbas I.= and designed by his chief architect , Sheikh Bahai . The mosque was designed to be a private mosque for the royal family and therefore it does not have any minarets . There is a tunnel from the mosque to the Royal Palace , across the square . 5 Masjed-e Jāmé of Isfahan , north of Naqsh-e Jahan Square in the old quarter . Started in AD 842 , this is the first Islamic building to adopt the four - courtyard layout of Sassanid palaces . 6 Hakim Mosque , Hakim ( north of Naqsh-e Jahan in the old quarter ) . One of the oldest mosques in Isfahan . Built by Shah Abbas II between 1656 and 1662 . Located on the site of a 10th century mosque . The portal was covered in mud until it was discovered in 1956 . Palaces Ali Qapu Palace Chehel Sotoun 7 Ālī Qāpū ( The Royal Palace ) . Early 17th Century . It is forty - eight meters high and there are seven floors , each accessible by a difficult spiral staircase . In the sixth floor music room , deep circular niches are found in the walls , having not only aesthetic value , but also acoustic . It is rich in naturalistic wall paintings by Reza Abbassi , the court painter of Shah Abbas I , and his pupils . There are floral , animal and bird motifs . 8 Hasht Behesht ( The Palace of Eight Paradises ) . 1669 , reportedly built for residence purposes of the king 's harem . Set within lush gardens which are free to roam if you do n't want to go inside the building . 9 Chehel Sotoun ( The Palace of Forty Columns ) . 1647 : It is called Palace of forty columns , as there are many columns , and in Iranian , 40 means many . Incidentally , there are twenty columns , and these are reflected in the pool in front , which might also account for its name . The function of this palace was for holding religious - national ceremonies and royal festivals and for receiving royal ambassadors and guests . It's Persian Gardens is one of nine inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List . Contains some spectacular battle murals .