Had a pouch , like , sorta like you 've got . I carried it around . Well any rate , my wife had fallen in love , with a , Mexican artist by the name of Nierman . Forgot his first name . Jewish guy . Mm . Mexican national . His paintings sold , f- for generally , a thousand dollars plus , which was , for me — A lot ta money in those days . Twenty - five years ago , I was — no way I was gon na spend twe- a thou- — First of all I did n't like him . Very splashy . Albert and Marcia had one of his paintings , they had — they had — I I do n't know , Marcia had a relative in Mexico , or something . But they 'd been down there , many times and , and they had his book , and , we got down there , and he was , uh , all over the place . His paintings were — he lived in Mexico City . And uh , we had a cab driver , uh , that was gon na take us to , wherever the place where the gold was . I ca n't remember , one of the roughest rides , and if you ever been to Mexico City , you made that ride . Yeah . Some kind a city , about hundred miles away , I thought we were gon na die going down there . An old car and , anyway . Well before that , he took us around the city , still got his card somewhere . Slammed the damn door on this guy , poor guy 's hand one day , inadvertently . We were getting out , we had him about three days , one day we took him down to wherever we went . Buddy and Sue did n't go , but he took us to the ruins , and all that stuff . You know , uh , you know , I and I I knew then , and I know now , that those guys , take you to a particular place , they get a commission . Well , they took us to this guy 's studio . He what ? Took us to this guy – artist 's studio . Uh , and uh , Rae , he was there . And she saw a painting she liked . And , uh , he wanted that damn recorder . And he said I tell you what I 'll do , make you a deal . He said I 'll — " you take this painting , I want that recorder , I 'll take it . " Could — naw I ca n't do that , it 's not mine . It was — it 's about a thousand dollar swap . Shit I thought my wife was gon na have a fit , she was pissed off . Mexico City was a , uh in those days , probably still is , not — For this guy he was very successful . Uh , very prolific . But it was an art colony , and there were a lot of Americans down there . He was not an American . A lot of Americans down there , uh because , cost of living was so cheap at the time . And they – they had these art shows everywhere . Well we bought a painting , uh , of a little Mexican woman , still got it , with a watermelon on her head , like it a lot . Think I paid thirty dollars for it . Well that was about my price range . Uh , while I was down there , we may have bought a couple of other i- inexpensive paintings , maybe collectively we bought , maybe spent a hundred and fifty dollars . Uh , hell I was not an art — we were n't art collectors . And uh , to spend a thousand dollars , to me for a painting , was unthinkable . Uh , the s- first painting I ever bought , my father - in - law bought it from Geri f- , Geri Rae , it was one of Geri 's original early early paintings , which I thoroughly enjoy . She 's changed styles but , while we were down there , uh — You know I — This — it — I 've seen that somewhere before . You know I 've had that painting for thirty - five years I guess . I – I 've never framed it . And I really like it . Uh , my — my my father - in - law wanted to give me a painting for my — piece of art for my office . And so I had a — we had a display guy at the time , by the name of Ben Money , fashioned himself as an artist . And I said " Ben , pick me out something , you 've got fifty bucks to spend . " So , he got this from Geri , and I loved it . It 's beautiful . And and , I can see all kind a things in it . It 's got a lot ta color and — Lot ta color . I see a Chinese junk . At any rate , to make a long s- — this fellow LeRoy Neiman , over here . Sports artist . Not the same guy , as this guy Nierman . I 've forgotten his name . Oh I thought there was a connection . No . No connection . K- there is a connection on the story . Well , we looked at a lot of art , in in in the , in the , uh parks , and there at least it was , pleasant weather and , like that uh , it was sorta like , uh . What the hell they call the district in New York , where on Sunday , they put all the artists , put their paintings out ? Uh , the Village , the Village . The Village . You know all the all these artists put their — Well they had , must 've had three areas like that . Parks with paintings , and my God , there must 've been thousands of paintings . And uh , most of em , very inexpensive . Uh starving artists that were down there , lots of American . Well , uh , we wandered around down in the , the area which , I 've forgotten the area that they called , in Mexico City where , uh , most of the jewelry shops are and things . It 's got a name . I ca n't remember , I 've never been back . They also had a lot of , uh , artist galleries down there . And I walked into this gallery , during one of our — we were down there maybe ten days . And I saw this guy Nierman . I never heard of him , at that time . He he he got famous at the nineteen , uh , probably seventy - two Olympics . Uh , but his c- — his art was already in collections of guys like Edward G. Robinson , it was very popular in Hollywood . He also was very prolific . Big handlebar mustache . And I walked in , and there must have been about , twelve or fifteen paintings in there . They were , uh — You walked into his studio , or — It was a gallery . Uh , he did n't live there . He did n't live in Mexico . Okay . The oth- th- the guy n- — th- the Jewish fellow . They 're both Jewish . Okay . Th- th- this guy Nierman , who was a Mexican national , lived there . Okay . Forgotten his first name . Leonardo Nierman or something . But any rate , but uh , this guy 's name was LeRoy Neiman , I 'd never heard of him , well I 'd heard of Nierman . Uh , because Rae went down there wanting to buy one of those paintings . These were paintings , which I 'd say were about the size of this Joe Namath there , which is a seriograph . And , we went in , and uh , they were just back from Acapulco , season was just over in Acapulco . And he had about fifteen twenty paintings , twenty - five paintings , football players , horse races , that 's what he did , they were about that size . I 'd been in there , oh God I looked at em , they just struck me as something , I loved em . They were great .