An Entrepreneurial Mindset in Your Discipline or Field Within your industry of interest or area of study , what are the challenges that create frustration ? How can these be turned into opportunities ? Earlier in this chapter , we discussed Evernote , a company that focuses on expanding our memories by storing and organizing information . Let ’s look at some other examples of entrepreneurial endeavors in specific industries to help you plan your own venture in your own industry . In the agriculture industry , insects , weeds , weather conditions , and the challenges of harvesting crops are all ripe for entrepreneurial activities . The move toward organic produce has also affected this industry . From an entrepreneurial perspective , what products could you invent to support both organic farming and the problems of insects that damage or destroy crops ? The old method was to use chemical sprays to kill the insects , but today , the growing demand for organic foods and increased awareness of the impact of chemical sprays on our environment are changing this scenario . One new idea to solve this problem combines a vacuum cleaner with an agriculture product . LINK TO LEARNING Watch this video on the creation of a crop vacuum that sucks up insects and bugs to learn more . A bug vacuum is an example of how using divergent thinking contributed to the solution of removing bugs from crops without using chemicals . In the group activity of creating divergent ideas , this idea may not have been received well . However , in the incubation stage , the idea must have come forward as a viable solution . Entrepreneurs frequently face the challenge of pressure to conform to established habits and patterns within industries . Often , the entrepreneurial mindset includes futuristic ideas that shake up the normal , conventional processes that are grounded in experience over time . Tried - and - tested processes and products that have a proven history of success can be a formidable obstacle to new ideas . A new idea may even appear as impossible or outlandish , perhaps even an embarrassment to the steady and predictable practices established within an industry . This can create a dilemma : Do we try something new and unproven that lacks documented research ? Sometimes , we must disregard our past successes and research to be open to new possibilities for success and failure . An entrepreneurial mindset includes creativity , problem - solving skills , and a propensity to innovation . 23 Open - mindedness is one characteristic that supports creativity , problem solving , and innovation . Taking the time to explore new ideas , dream , reflect , and view situations from a new perspective contribute to the entrepreneurial mindset . Some innovations can lead to disruptions within the industry , or even create a new industry . The innovator ’s dilemma was presented by Clayton Christensen to explain disruptive technology , which are technologies that , once introduced , displace established patterns , processes , and systems previously accepted as normal or accepted . One example of a disruptive technology is Airbnb , a company that threatens the established hotel industry by connecting personal resources to people who desire those resources . If you have a spare bedroom that you are n’t using , why not sell that space to someone who wants and needs the space ? Airbnb has become a significant threat to the established hotel industry ’s business model of building large hotels and renting rooms within those hotels to their customers . Airbnb has reconfigured that model , and since its 2008 launch , 150 million travelers have taken advantage of 3 million Airbnb listings in more than 191 countries . Airbnb has raised more than $ 3 billion ( plus a $ 1 billion credit line ) and is considering selling stocks to support significant expansion . The value of Airbnb is approximately $ 30 billion . Compare this market value to Hilton ’s market capitalization of $ 19 billion and Marriott ’s of $ 35 billion . If you were the CEO of Hilton or Marriott , would you be worried ? The hotel industry recognized Airbnb as a threat , and in 2016 , began a campaign to create legislation to rein in Airbnb ’s growth and popularity . From the hotel industry ’s perspective , Airbnb is not playing by the same rules . This is the definition of disruptive technology , the focus on creating a new idea or process that negates or challenges established process or products . 24 Sometimes disruptive technologies result from not listening to customers . Customers do n’t always know what they want . Customer groups might need to be redefined by the entrepreneurial team on the basis of better models , knowing when to invest in developing lower - performance products that promise lower margins while still satisfying the need , and knowing when to pursue small markets at the expense of larger or established markets . Basically , disruptive technologies occur through identifying new and valuable processes and products . The founders of Airbnb recognized that some people have unused resources , bedrooms , that other people need . We can apply this idea to other unused resources such as vehicles and motor homes . We see this model reproduced in short - term car rental and bike - sharing programs . Emma Fleck . “ Needed : Entrepreneurial Mindset . ” Central Penn Business Journal , 34 ( 12 ) , 10 . http://pageturnpro2.com.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/Publications/201803/15/83956/PDF/131668002208352000_CPBJ033018WEB.pdf Katie Benner . “ Inside the Hotel Industry ’s Plan to Combat Airbnb . ” New York Times . April 16 , 2017 . https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/16/technology/inside-the-hotel-industrys-plan-to-combat-airbnb.html