Sir de Villiers Graaff , Leader of the Opposition , House of Assembly , CAPE TOWN Sir , In one week 's time , the Verwoerd Government intends to inaugurate its Republic . It is unnecessary to state that this intention has never been endorsed by the non-white majority of this country . The decision has been taken by little over half of the White community ; it is opposed by every articulate group amongst the African , Coloured and Indian communities , who constitute the majority of this country . The Government 's intentions to proceed , under these circumstances , has created conditions bordering on crisis . We have been excluded from the Commonwealth , and condemned 95 to 1 at the United Nations . Our trade is being boycotted , and foreign capital is being withdrawn . The country is becoming an armed camp , the Government preparing for civil war with increasingly heavy police and military apparatus , the non-white population for a general strike and long - term non-cooperation with the Government . None of us can draw any satisfaction from this developing crisis . We , on our part , in the name of the African people - a majority of South Africans - and on the authority given us by 1 400 elected African representatives at the Pietermaritzburg Conference of 25 and 26 March , have put forward serious proposals for a way out of the crisis . We have called on the Government to convene an elected National Convention of representatives of all races without delay , and to charge that Convention with the task of drawing up a new Constitution for this country which would be acceptable to all racial groups . We can see no workable alternative to this proposal , except that the Nationalist Government proceeds to enforce a minority decision on all of us , with the certain consequence of still deeper crisis , and a continuing period of strife and disaster ahead . Stated bluntly , the alternatives appear to be these : talk it out , or shoot it out . Outside of the Nationalist Party , most of the important and influential bodies of public opinion have clearly decided to talk it out . The South African Indian Congress , the only substantial Indian community organisation , has welcomed and endorsed the call for a National Convention . So , too have the Coloured people , through the Coloured Convention movement which has the backing of the main bodies of Coloured opinion . A substantial European body of opinion , represented by both the Progressive and the Liberal Parties , has endorsed our call . Support for a National Convention has come also from the bulk of the English language press , from several national church organisations , and from many others . But where , Sir , does the United Party stand ? We have yet to hear from this most important organisation - the main organisation in fact of anti-Nationalist opinion amongst the European community . Or from you , its leader . If the country 's leading statesmen fail to lead at this moment , then the worst is inevitable . It is time for you , Sir , and your Party , to speak out . Are you for a democratic and peaceable solution to our problems ? Are you , therefore , for a National Convention ? We in South Africa , and the world outside expect an answer . Silence at this time enables , Dr. Verwoerd to lead us onwards towards the brink of disaster . We realise that aspects of our proposal raise complicated problems . What shall be the basis of representation at the Convention ? How shall the representatives be elected ? But these are not the issues now at stake . The issue now is a simple one . Are all groups to be consulted before a constitutional change is made ? Or only the White minority ? A decision on this matter can not be delayed . Once that decision is taken , then all other matters , of how , when and where , can be discussed , and agreement on them can be reached . On our part the door to such discussion has always been open . We have approached you and your Party before , and suggested that matters of difference be discussed . To date we have had no reply : Nevertheless we still hold the door open . But the need now is not for debate about differences of detail , but for clarity of principle and purpose . For a National Convention of all races ? Or against ? It is still not too late to turn the tide against the Nationalist - created crisis . A call for a National Convention from you now could well be the turning - point in our country 's history . It would unite the overwhelming majority of our people , White , Coloured , Indian and African , for a single purpose - round - table talks for a new constitution . It would isolate the Nationalist Government , and reveal for all time that it is a minority Government , clinging tenaciously to power against the popular will , driving recklessly onward to a disaster for itself and us . Your call for a National Convention now would add such strength to the already powerful call for it that the Government would be chary of ignoring it further . And if they nevertheless ignore the call for a Convention , the inter-racial unity thus cemented by your call would lay the basis for the replacement of this Government of national disaster by one more acceptable to the people , one prepared to follow the democratic path of consulting all the people in order to resolve the crisis . We urge you strongly to speak out now . It is ten days to 31 May . Yours faithfully [ Signed ] Nelson Mandela NELSON MANDELA All - In African National Action Council