Pierre Charles L'Enfant , Pierre Charles L'Enfant ( French : [ pjɛʁ ʃɑʁl lɑ̃fɑ̃ ] ; August 2 , 1754 – June 14 , 1825 ) , self - identified as Peter Charles L'Enfant while living in the United States , was a French - born American military engineer who designed the basic plan for Washington , D.C. ( capital city of the U.S. ) known today as the L'Enfant Plan ( 1791 ) . Early life and education L'Enfant was born in Paris , France on August 2 , 1754 , the third child and second son of Pierre L'Enfant ( 1704 – 1787 ) , a painter with a good reputation in the service of King Louis XV of France , ( 1710 - 1774 , reigned 1715 - 1774 ) , and Marie L'Enfant , the daughter of a minor official at court . In 1758 , his brother Pierre Joseph died at the age of six , and Pierre Charles became the eldest son . He studied art at the Royal Academy in the Louvre , as well as with his father at the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture . He left school in France to enlist in the American Revolutionary War on the side of the rebelling colonials . Military service L'Enfant was recruited by Pierre Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais to serve in the American Revolutionary War in the United States . He arrived in 1777 at the age of 23 , and served as a military engineer in the Continental Army with Major General Lafayette . He was commissioned as a captain in the Corps of Engineers on April 3 , 1779 to rank from February 18 , 1778 . Despite his aristocratic origins , L'Enfant closely identified with the United States , changing his first name from Pierre to Peter when he first came to the rebelling colonies in 1777 . L'Enfant served on General George Washington 's staff at Valley Forge . While there , the Marquis de Lafayette commissioned L'Enfant to paint a portrait of Washington . He was wounded at the Siege of Savannah on October 9 , 1779 . He recovered and became a prisoner of war at surrender of Charleston , South Carolina on May 12 , 1780 . He was exchanged in November 1780 and served on General George Washington 's staff for the remainder of the American Revolution . L'Enfant was promoted by brevet to Major in the Corps of Engineers on May 2 , 1783 , in recognition of his service to the cause of American liberty . He was discharged when the Continental Army was disbanded in December 1783 . After the war , L'Enfant designed the badge of the Society of the Cincinnati , an organization of former officers of the Continental Army , shaped as an eagle , at the request of Washington . He was sent to France to have insignias made for members of the Society , a group of veterans of the war . Career Post–Revolutionary War Following the American Revolutionary War , L'Enfant established a successful and highly profitable civil engineering firm in New York City . He achieved some fame as an architect by redesigning the City Hall in New York for the First Congress of the United States ( See : Federal Hall ) . He also designed furniture and houses for the wealthy as well as coins and medals , including the insignia of the Society of the Cincinnati . He was also a friend of Alexander Hamilton , and some of their correspondances from 1790 to 1801 now reside in the National Archives . While L'Enfant was in New York City , he was initiated into Freemasonry . His initiation took place on April 17 , 1789 , at Holland Lodge No. 8 , F&AM , which the Grand Lodge of New York F&AM had chartered in 1787 . L'Enfant took only the first of three degrees offered by the Lodge and did not progress further in Freemasonry .