P.S. Slacks are on the way , sent yesterday . Miss Marcie Rickenbacker Abbot Academy Andover , Massachusetts 01810 Ash Wednesday 1969 Thurs. Dear Mom , Sorry for the delay of this letter . I just started my Eng. project on Sunday and have been working like mad to get some or all of it done . Academic probabition list came out yesterday , I 'm not on it . Yeah ! So far in Math I 've gotten a B & B- and we had a take home test Tues. nite . After working so hard and long on it , I hope to get a good mark . I did a French comp. the other nite . Arosa said it was terrible , I just ca n’t write comps. , so I ’ve got a confer. this after . Oh crum , I just got back my Math test and got a C . I 'm so mad , after working so hard , I could scream ! I asked the guy , who really helped me at the Hum. Relations Confer , to the Prom . I really am Crazy , I do n't think Mike will come , but I hope so . If he does n't then I 'll probably ask Dan Kent or Craig Ashley . I 'm supposed to go to the Winter Carnival this Sat. with Ed Davison , but have n't seen or heard from him since Sunday when he walked me back from Vespers . I said , " Hey , write sometime " & he said , “ Yeah , sometime . " . I 've got to find out what 's coming off , because he said if he got back from his swimming meet at a reasonable hour then we 'd go . I went to the Catholic mass , yesterday morning . Sue said since she was getting up & would probably wake me , would I like to go . We got up at 5:55 and stumbled into our clothes . We and 2 other girls hurried to church by 6:30 . I was completely lost 'cuz the service was n't in the Misalette . But we all got our ashes . Mine were so dark and they stayed on till I washed my face last nite late . It 's funny how so many people remarked , " How Oh what a good girl you are , you went to church . " On the way back Sue Cleveland & I noticed cars at the Epis. church so we decided to have commonion . We got back to school at 7:40 and did n't have breakfast . I 've given up all extras & fattening foods for lent . Oh , I 'm starving ! Please write soon . Love & xxx , to all , Marcie