Senator Hatfield , Mr. Chief Justice , Mr. President , Vice President Bush , Vice President Mondale , Senator Baker , Speaker O'Neill , Reverend Moomaw , and my fellow citizens : To a few of us here today this is a solemn and most momentous occasion , and yet in the history of our nation it is a commonplace occurrence . The orderly transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes place , as it has for almost two centuries , and few of us stop to think how unique we really are . In the eyes of many in the world , this every 4 - year ceremony we accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle . Mr. President , I want our fellow citizens to know how much you did to carry on this tradition . By your gracious cooperation in the transition process , you have shown a watching world that we are a united people pledged to maintaining a political system which guarantees individual liberty to a greater degree than any other , and I thank you and your people for all your help in maintaining the continuity which is the bulwark of our Republic . The business of our nation goes forward . These United States are confronted with an economic affliction of great proportions . We suffer from the longest and one of the worst sustained inflations in our national history . It distorts our economic decisions , penalizes thrift , and crushes the struggling young and the fixed - income elderly alike . It threatens to shatter the lives of millions of our people . Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment , human misery , and personal indignity . Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax system which penalizes successful achievement and keeps us from maintaining full productivity . But great as our tax burden is , it has not kept pace with public spending . For decades we have piled deficit upon deficit , mortgaging our future and our children 's future for the temporary convenience of the present . To continue this long trend is to guarantee tremendous social , cultural , political , and economic upheavals . You and I , as individuals , can , by borrowing , live beyond our means , but for only a limited period of time . Why , then , should we think that collectively , as a nation , we 're not bound by that same limitation ? We must act today in order to preserve tomorrow . And let there be no misunderstanding : We are going to begin to act , beginning today . The economic ills we suffer have come upon us over several decades . They will not go away in days , weeks , or months , but they will go away . They will go away because we as Americans have the capacity now , as we 've had in the past , to do whatever needs to be done to preserve this last and greatest bastion of freedom . In this present crisis , government is not the solution to our problem ; government is the problem . From time to time we 've been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self - rule , that government by an elite group is superior to government for , by , and of the people . Well , if no one among us is capable of governing himself , then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else ? All of us together , in and out of government , must bear the burden . The solutions we seek must be equitable , with no one group singled out to pay a higher price . We hear much of special interest groups . Well , our concern must be for a special interest group that has been too long neglected . It knows no sectional boundaries or ethnic and racial divisions , and it crosses political party lines . It is made up of men and women who raise our food , patrol our streets , man our mines and factories , teach our children , keep our homes , and heal us when we 're sick — professionals , industrialists , shopkeepers , clerks , cabbies , and truck drivers . They are , in short , " We the people , " this breed called Americans . Well , this administration 's objective will be a healthy , vigorous , growing economy that provides equal opportunities for all Americans , with no barriers born of bigotry or discrimination . Putting America back to work means putting all Americans back to work . Ending inflation means freeing all Americans from the terror of runaway living costs . All must share in the productive work of this " new beginning , " and all must share in the bounty of a revived economy . With the idealism and fair play which are the core of our system and our strength , we can have a strong and prosperous America , at peace with itself and the world .