Wow . Whoa . That is some group of people . Thousands . So nice , thank you very much . That 's really nice . Thank you . It 's great to be at Trump Tower . It 's great to be in a wonderful city , New York . And it 's an honor to have everybody here . This is beyond anybody 's expectations . There 's been no crowd like this . And , I can tell you , some of the candidates , they went in . They did n't know the air - conditioner did n't work . They sweated like dogs . They did n't know the room was too big , because they did n't have anybody there . How are they going to beat ISIS ? I do n't think it 's gon na happen . Our country is in serious trouble . We do n't have victories anymore . We used to have victories , but we do n't have them . When was the last time anybody saw us beating , let 's say , China in a trade deal ? They kill us . I beat China all the time . All the time . We want Trump . We want Trump . When did we beat Japan at anything ? They send their cars over by the millions , and what do we do ? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo ? It does n't exist , folks . They beat us all the time . When do we beat Mexico at the border ? They 're laughing at us , at our stupidity . And now they are beating us economically . They are not our friend , believe me . But they 're killing us economically . The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else 's problems . Thank you . It 's true , and these are the best and the finest . When Mexico sends its people , they 're not sending their best . They 're not sending you . They 're not sending you . They 're sending people that have lots of problems , and they 're bringing those problems with us . They 're bringing drugs . They 're bringing crime . They 're rapists . And some , I assume , are good people . But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we 're getting . And it only makes common sense . It only makes common sense . They 're sending us not the right people . It 's coming from more than Mexico . It 's coming from all over South and Latin America , and it 's coming probably — probably — from the Middle East . But we do n't know . Because we have no protection and we have no competence , we do n't know what 's happening . And it 's got to stop and it 's got to stop fast . Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East . They 've become rich . I 'm in competition with them . They just built a hotel in Syria . Can you believe this ? They built a hotel . When I have to build a hotel , I pay interest . They do n't have to pay interest , because they took the oil that , when we left Iraq , I said we should 've taken . So now ISIS has the oil , and what they do n't have , Iran has . And in 19 — and I will tell you this , and I said it very strongly , years ago , I said — and I love the military , and I want to have the strongest military that we 've ever had , and we need it more now than ever . But I said , " Do n't hit Iraq , " because you 're going to totally destabilize the Middle East . Iran is going to take over the Middle East , Iran and somebody else will get the oil , and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq . Think of it . Iran is taking over Iraq , and they 're taking it over big league . We spent $ 2 trillion in Iraq , $ 2 trillion . We lost thousands of lives , thousands in Iraq . We have wounded soldiers , who I love , I love — they 're great — all over the place , thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers . And we have nothing . We ca n't even go there . We have nothing . And every time we give Iraq equipment , the first time a bullet goes off in the air , they leave it . Last week , I read 2,300 Humvees — these are big vehicles — were left behind for the enemy . 2,000 ? You would say maybe two , maybe four ? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles , they ran , and the enemy took them . We need Trump now . You 're right . We need Trump now . Last quarter , it was just announced our gross domestic product — a sign of strength , right ? But not for us . It was below zero . Whoever heard of this ? It 's never below zero . Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978 . But think of it , GDP below zero , horrible labor participation rate . And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent . Do n't believe the 5.6 . Do n't believe it . That 's right . A lot of people up there ca n't get jobs . They ca n't get jobs , because there are no jobs , because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs . They all have jobs . But the real number , the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent , and nobody talks about it , because it 's a statistic that 's full of nonsense . We want Trump now . Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way , and we as a country are getting weaker . Even our nuclear arsenal does n't work . It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old . They do n't know if it worked . And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television , because boy , does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say , " That is a group of people , and that is a nation that truly has no clue . They do n't know what they 're doing . They do n't know what they 're doing . "