New faces emerge as veteran politicians step down in Hong Kong legislative election Friday , September 9 , 2016 The Hong Kong legislative election was held on Sunday , with a record - breaking turnout of around 2 million voters and turnout rate of 58 % . The results show the anti-establishment camp successfully maintained a majority in the geographical constituencies ' seats thus veto power to any members ' bills , and also a minority larger than a third to veto any bills featuring major political reforms . Young and new faces emerged in the new council members , as veteran politicians stepped down in both the anti-establishment and pro-Beijing campus . Election Results Eddie Chu received the largest vote in any geographical constituency In the New Territories West geographical constituency , nonpartisan pan-democrat Eddie Chu was elected with 84,121 votes , the most given to any list in the geographical constituencies . Other anti-establishment candidates elected in this district were localist camp 's Cheng Chung - tai of Civic Passion , pan - democracy camp 's Kwok Ka-ki and Andrew Wan of respectively Civic Party and the Democratic Party . The pro-Beijing camp candidates elected were New People Party 's Michael Tien , DAB 's Ben Chan and Leung Che - cheung , FTU 's Alice Mak and pro-establishment nonpartisan Junius Ho . Two pan-democratic veteran politicians Lee Cheuk - yan of the Labour Party and Frederick Fung of ADPL were defeated in this constituency , with Junius Ho defeating Lee Cheuk - yan by around five thousand votes . Michael Tien of NPP DAB 's Elizabeth Quat In the New Territories East geographical constituency , pan - democracy camp councillors Alvin Yeung from the Civic Party , Fernando Cheung of the Labour Party , Raymond Chan of People Power , and Leung Kwok - hung of LSD were successfully elected . Pan - democrat Lam Cheuk - ting from the Democratic Party and localist group Youngspiration 's Baggio Leung were successfully elected newcomers . For the Pro-Beijing camp , Elizabeth Quat of DAB was elected with 58,825 votes , the highest in the constituency . Other pro-Beijing candidates elected in this constituency were Gary Chan of DAB and Eunice Yung of New People 's Party . Pan - democrat Gary Fan of the Neo Democrats failed to get re-elected in this constituency , and resigned from his leadership in his party due to its election defeat . Alvin Yeung of Civic Party New People Party 's Regina Ip In the Hong Kong Island geographical constituency , pro-Beijing New People Party 's Regina Ip was re-elected with 60,760 votes . Other pro-Beijing elected were FTU 's Kwok Wai-keung and DAB 's Horace Cheung . Demosisto 's Nathan Law earned a surprise victory as second place in the constituency with 50,818 votes , and becomes the youngest Legislative Council member in Hong Kong 's history . The other two anti-establishment camp elects were Hui Chi-fung from the Democratic Party and Tanya Chan of the Civic Party , both considered to be in the pan - democracy camp . Pan - democrat veteran Cyd Ho from the Labour Party lost her seat in this constituency . Nathan Law of Demosisto Ann Chiang of DAB In the Kowloon West geographical constituency , pro-Beijing councillors Ann Chiang of DAB and Priscilla Leung of BPA were successfully re-elected , as well as pan-democratic councillors Claudia Mo of the Civic Party and Wong Pik-wan of the Democratic Party . The rest of the candidates elected in this constituency were young and relatively new activists from the localist camp , Lau Siu-lai and Youngspiration 's Yau Wai-ching . Yau Wai-ching defeated another localist camp candidate , veteran politician Raymond Wong of the Proletariat Political Institute , by 424 votes . Claudia Mo of Civic Party Wong Kwok - kin of FTU In the Kowloon East geographical constituency , pro-Beijing district councillor Wilson Or was elected with 51,516 votes , the highest in this constituency . Nonpartisan Paul Tse and Wong Kwok - kin of the FTU were successfully re-elected . Pan - democracy camp councillor Wu Chi-wai of the Democratic Party was elected . Civic Party 's Jeremy Tam was elected for the first time . Localist group Civic Passion 's Wong Yeung - tat was defeated in this district , and resigned his leadership in Civic Passion . Wu Chi-wai of the Democratic Party Leung Yiu-chung of NWSC ; from file , 2008 . In the District Council ( Second ) functional constituency , commonly know as " Super District Council " seats , pan - democracy camp 's Kwong Chun - yu of the Democratic Party received 491,667 votes , the highest in this constituency . Other pan-democrats elected were Leung Yiu-chung of NWSC and James To of the Democratic Party . Pro-Beijing DAB 's Starry Lee and Holden Chow were successfully elected in this constituency , while pro-Beijing veteran politician Wong Kwok - hing of FTU was defeated by 10,694 votes by James To . DAB 's Starry Lee ; from file , 2015 . In traditional functional constituencies , the pan - democracy camp gained a seat from the pro-Beijing camp . Shiu Ka-chun of the Social Welfare constituency defeated their opponents , hence the pan-democrats ' seats in the functional constituencies increased from 9 to 10 . Also , an independent who does not claim to belong to either camp , Edward Yiu of the Architectural , Surveying , Planning and Landscape constituency , defeated his opponents and was elected . The turnout of this election was the highest in the history of Legislative Council elections , with around 2 million voters voted and a turnout rate of 58 % . At a polling station in Taikoo of the Hong Kong Island constituency , after the polls closed at 22:30 , with the long queues outside the station the last ballot there was cast at 2:30 the next day , four hours after the last person was allowed to join the queue . The previous general legislative election in Hong Kong was before the 2014 protests . The election elects 70 members of the Legislative Council .