How to Flirt Through Instant Messaging So you want to flirt with a guy or gal on MSN , AIM , Facebook Chat , or any other instant messaging service and you do n't want to look like a creep ? Congratulations — by seeking help , you 've already demonstrated more self - awareness than the vast majority of online flirts . See Step 1 below to start flirting smartly and respectfully . Part 1 of 2 : Flirting Dos Start the conversation casually . As in the real world , the first step to flirting is to get over your cold feet and jump right in ! Text the other person a brief message asking them about their day , asking them a specific question about work or school , or simply saying " Hi ! " . The hardest part of flirting is to break through your initial reluctance , so if you 're having a hard time taking the plunge , just remind yourself that no matter how badly it goes , it 'll be less stressful than an equivalent real - world encounter . There 's no reason to be nervous when it comes to IM flirting — if the person you want to talk to does n't want to talk to you , s/he always has the option of simply not responding to your message , as , from your point of view , this is indistinguishable from him or her simply being away from the computer . This being said , if you barely know someone , it can be a good idea to have an excuse for starting a conversation to avoid awkwardness . Asking for help with a work or school - related problem is almost always a good bet , as is asking a question about something striking about the person . For instance , if the person has a band - related username , you might say : " Hey , cool name . Did you see those guys when they last came to town ? " Start small talk . After your initial greeting and exchange of pleasantries , you 'll probably want to ask how the person 's doing ( just like you might in the real world ) . Ask him or her about work or school , his / her interests , or any recent trips , for instance . Rather than asking a question , you can also simply offer your comments on these things . When s/he responds , add your own comments or ask follow - up questions and proceed from there ! Do n't pry into his or her personal life — keep things light , fun , and focused on worry - free subjects . Do n't dwell too long on small talk . A minute or two is great for breaking the ice , but much more can get boring fast . For example , after we 've opened up by asking about this person 's interest in the band in his / her username , it 's logical and reasonable to ask about this person 's musical likes and dislikes . You can even offer your own opinions and suggestions . For instance , you might say something like : " If you like those guys , you might want to check out this band called Manic Albatross - they 're like the Beatles , only darker . What sorts of other bands do you like ? " Joke . Everyone likes a good sense of humor . In the immortal words of Marilyn Monroe , " If you can make a woman laugh , you can make her do anything " ( do n't worry , ladies — the same is true for men ! ) Try to be playful and even slightly sarcastic as you respond to the statements of the person you 're talking to . For instance , if you 're asked what you 're up to , rather than saying , " looking for people to hit on on Facebook " you might find that it 's a better idea to give a sarcastic answer like " writing the great American novel " or " drowning my sorrows " . These responses have the added benefit of being natural launching points for conversations about your hobbies , like the writing you 're doing on the side and the great bourbon you tasted the other day . In our example conversation , you might work a joke or two into your music - related small talk . For instance , you might say something like , " I do n't know why every song on the radio nowadays has a Texas Flynn feature . Does he even have time to record between rehab stints ? " Part 2 of 2 : Flirting Don'ts Do n't be too self - deprecating . Simply put , confidence is sexy . This is more true for real - life situations than it is online , but this mantra has some truth in the world of IM flirting as well . For instance , you 'll want to avoid making lots of jokes at your own expense . Just one is plenty — it should n't be a recurring theme throughout your conversation . Doing this too often can quickly turn an otherwise flirtatious conversation into one in which you appear needy and self - loathing . On the other hand , this is n't to say that you should necessarily make jokes at other people 's expense , as this can make you seem mean and petty . Any sort of pointed or caustic remarks about yourself or someone else do n't have a place in flirtatious conversations . Do n't be too sappy . People like flirting to be fun . For most people , receiving compliments is only fun up to a point — getting more than one or two can make someone feel embarrassed and self - conscious . It can also make him or her question your motives , leading the person to believe that you may be trying to get something out of him or her . Besides , the wooing power of flowery , gushing compliments is diminished ( to say the least ) when the compliments are displayed in a tiny box at the bottom of the screen alongside cartoon smiley faces . Instead of relying too heavily on compliments , instead , focus on having an engaging , genuine conversation . Follow the mantra " show , do n't tell . " In other words , show that you 're attracted to this person by giving him or her a great conversation , not by stating it outright .