He 's teething . You should have heard him , the night we took him to the emergency room . He sounded worse . I pr- if I know , I would probably 've been totally freaked out . That 's scary . Maybe it 's good he did n't stay with me . I 'd have been like Michael . Scary . Yeah , he – he was um – I 'd be like Mom , uh , what should we do with this child . Well his temperature was a hundred and four point five . That is so high . He 's lucky that he did n't – How long was he there ? That high ? How long , do you know ? Uh his fever ? Yeah . I do n't know . That 's dangerou- – I mean s- – Cause he could have , brain damage . The doctor said – the doctor said that th- um , his pediatrician , cause I asked him about it , and he said that they do n't hospitalize until they go up to like a hundred and seven . And that 's where it 's fatal . And I was like , well , you know – What about brain damage ? That does n't matter or ? Mmm . Excuse me brain damage is important to me . He said actually fevers are – How did he explain it ? He said something like , feathers – fevers are like , um , good for babies like , when they 're i- b- getting sick , because they help the immune system fight harder . Somehow . I do n't know . Well that 's what the – I mean that 's what – The reason the body gets that hot , is like to kill the germs or whatever I think . Is n't that part of it ? Yes Doctor Kevin , tell . No I 'm pretty – I 'm pretty sure , I 'm pretty sure that 's part of it , but uh it 's just that you have to watch out , cause then , if it gets too hot it 's bad for the brain . It 's like a car , it overheats . And stalls out . Maybe , I do n't – I – I 'm not sure . Are you gon na stall out Jito ? Do n't stall out on us . Who 's all the babinos ? I know the one in the lower right . Which one ? This one is mine . I recognize him alr- – Issac . That 's the one that 's ten days older than – That 's Michael 's – those are Michael 's nephews – Jose – That 's Jose – Jose and then – And then Gino 's the one in the middle . Gino is in the middle . That 's his sister . Aw he 's a bit older . Right ? Yeah he 's three . He does n't look that – He 's o- he 's three . Is he talking any more ? Is he talking good now ? You ca n't understan- – he – you can but , then you ca n't , sometimes , some of the things he says . Does he talk big long things but you just ca n't understand em ? No , he 's okay then . A gestalt kid . He 's a gestalt child . No there 's two different wa- – Yeah , psychotherapist . No no no no no no n- no no n- no . It 's just two different ways . Like , kids can either like , they 'll say one word , but they 'll say it really , like pretty clear , and that the way they 're th- they 'll have like twenty words or whatever , and they 'll just ask for one thing . And then there 's other kids who go , na-na-na-na-za-ba-da ? And there 'll be a word in there somewhere ? And there 's a – Oh ! Do n't freak out . Are you okay ? Cause I tickled his feet . It 's all my fault . Give him a drink . It 's he drinks too fast . It just went down the wrong pipe . You need to burp ? It was n't that bad . Oh , really sorry . But um , anyways . So it 's just a d- like a different style . A lot of air . I sorry . They 're allowed to do it either way . They 're allowed . No no no no . Which way you gon na do ? Is he a righ- are you a righty ? You 're a righty . It 's funny cause , h- he 'll be like , he 'll get up in the morning , he 'll sit in front of the TV with his bottle in one hand , just watching TV , like half asleep , you know , he 's a – I 'm like , go- – While ago he was here – If you lay – And he was watching the football game – Like his grandpa . That 's low , Issac – He was watching the football game – Bottle in one hand , half asleep , watching TV . That 's low . This picture . Thanks a lot , you witch . What ? You witch . It 's true . Aw . Jito . you 're dwibbling . Dwibbling ? Uh dwibbling . Gross . Um . Oh . Try not to spit all over here . Baby slobber , ew . You seen it was gross . Michael , Michael 's shirt was all wet , from right here , from him just drooling . It was – Probably he was opening – And we took him to the – Breathing through his mouth more , cause he could n't breathe through his nose at – Mm . And then he could n't even breathe , he had , um , they had this thing , it was this big old long old tube . Here . And it was funny , like , we could – They put a mist – Child , you 're having problems .