Guadeloupe Guadeloupe , known as Gwadloup in the local creole , and sometimes known as the Butterfly Island ( French : I'ile Papillon ) on account of the shape of two of its major islands , is a group of islands in the eastern Caribbean , and is a French overseas department . It is located southeast of Puerto Rico . Islands Basse Terre : green and lush vegetation , mountainous with a sulphuric volcano . Grande Terre : flat and dry with a lot of beaches , some of them very touristic . Marie Galante : the biggest island out of mainland Guadeloupe . Les Saintes : composed of Terre de Haut and Terre de Bas , one of the most beautiful bays . La Désirade : dry and cliffy . Petite Terre : uninhabited and untamed . Cities Grande Terre Map of Guadeloupe Pointe - à - Pitre : with its suburbs , it is the economic capital of Guadeloupe Gosier : maybe one of the most interesting places of Guadeloupe to enjoy nightlife . ( You can enter most nightclubs with proper clothes , that is , no sneakers , no shorts ) St François if you go at the eastern point of Guadeloupe , you will reach La Pointe des Chateaux , a scenery made of sand and rocks which have vaguely the shape of a castle . From there , you can look up at the islands La Désirade , Petite Terre , Marie Galante , Les Saintes , La Dominique but also have a perfect view of the islands Grande Terre and far away Basse Terre . St Anne a very nice but also very touristy city and beach ( maybe the tourists primary area of Guadeloupe ) . L'Americano , bd Georges Mandel , 0590883899 : bar / restaurant offers free salsa courses on Saturdays and live performances some days . You will find all kind of bars . You can try Club Med , 0590854950 fax : 0590854959 ( for instance , others resort may propose this formula too ) for a one day all inclusive ( breakfast , buffet , bars , drinks , beach volley , windsurf , boat , gym , dance courses ... ) for about € 46 , so it may be a good deal ( as it costs € 7 one hour of windsurf ) . Morne à l'eau , renowned for its amazing cemetery composed of burial places made of black and white tiles . Anse Bertrand , not far from there , you can visit La pointe de la Grande Vigie , northern point of mainland Guadeloupe . You can also go to Porte d'Enfer , a beautiful still stripe of sea between a scenery of reefs . From there , walk one hour along the cliff , and you will discover a Souffleur , kind of geyser due to the pressure of the sea . Abymes nothing special to see , but the weekend , there are 3 local nightclubs : L'instant , Caraibes and Latin Club . They are located at the same place . Baie - Mahault : the industrial and commercial zone of Guadeloupe , nothing special to do or see . Here stands the biggest shopping mall of the island . Not too far from there , you can find a local bar / nightclub named Bik Kreyol , Beau Soleil , 0590258046 or 0590920648 ( Entrance € 5 , Drinks € 3 ) . Local music ( ragga , zouk , rnb ) and local customers . The building is typical , it 's a former warehouse . Other destinations Do n't miss the spectacular waterfalls in the jungle of Basse - Terre ( Carbet Falls ) . Some are within 5 – 10 minutes walking distance from the nearest parking lot , some require at least 3 – 4 hours of hiking ( those are , of course less frequented by other tourists and you might find yourself alone at a spectacular waterfall in the middle of nowhere - an amazing experience ! ) . The local rum distilleries offer tours ( check for opening times as they may very from season to season ) which are certainly worth the while since rum production is a very integral part of Guadeloupe 's economy . And sampling the local rums is definitely worth the while . Even though they might not be the best way to get around the island , a ride on the bus is still an experience you should not miss . Cheap , full of locals , conducted by fearless drivers , you can enjoy the beautiful Caribbean panorama to the sound of Guadeloupean zouk music . Some routes are not good for passengers with weak stomachs .