The Last Christmas of Mrs. Claus by Alex Wilson Betty was thirty - eight and still believed in Santa Claus . But sometimes he could be such an asshole . She leaned against the kitchen counter , picking dried glaze from the wrinkles in the back of her hand . From the wireless headset that dangled from her neck , her old marine buddies called to her with joyous profanity and the bass of digital gunfire . The Xbox was upstairs . Her buddies were in San Diego and Cleveland . Satellite coverage in Santa ’s Village was just another Christmas miracle , like faster - than - light travel and stuffing oneself through gas fireplaces with neither explosions nor lawsuits nipping at your heels . It was six o’clock . Santa had said he needed to leave at eight . So Betty had made Christmas Eve dinner while listening to — instead of participating in — the big special ops campaign game online . She ’d garlic - salted the yams to the tune of Gomez unloading his Glock into a drug dealer . She ’d painted the ham with maple glaze while Williams punctuated Patty Smyth ’s “ Goodbye to You ” with bursts from his assault rifle . “ Her boys , ” as she called them , did n’t take a lot of eggnog in their rum . Santa had spent his day opening envelopes from North American children and falling asleep watching the Pittsburgh - Cleveland game in the media room . Now he was in the kitchen , awake and on his way out the door , because suddenly spending fifteen minutes eating dinner with his wife had become too much of a burden on this most wonderful night of the year . His white V - neck undershirt was tucked into his pants in front , pulled taught over his belly . It stretched the neckhole halfway down to his happy trail . His hands were finding their way through the armholes of his robe . “ It ’s just that there are more children in the world now , ” he said . “ And Santa ’s not getting any younger , ho ho ho . ” “ Do n’t get much older either , ” Betty said . Santa ’s first wife had died centuries ago , but he always just dismissed the question of his own mortality . Betty never knew how naughty she should feel about wanting to strangle him sometimes . “ You ’re seriously going to let me eat alone again on Christmas Eve ? ” “ Do n’t think of it like that , doll , ” Santa said . “ Think of the children . ” He slung his belt around his back , and gave it a quick tug . His waist shrunk from dangerously obese to barely jolly . A few crumpled bills in American currency fell out of his pocket . Santa bent down to pick them up , mumbling about “ emergency money . ” “ Ca n’t you get dressed in the bedroom like a normal person ? ” Betty asked . Distorted shouting erupted from Betty ’s headset . She imagined red and yellow mosaic bursts lighting up the sunless snowscape outside , as if there was an HDTV behind the blinds instead of their kitchen window . One of her boys probably stepped on a landmine . Williams , she guessed . She thought she could hear Gomez laughing . She picked up the pans in which she ’d made the potatoes and maple glaze . She put them in the sink to soak . The gingerbread batter bowl could wait a day , even though it would take longer to clean tomorrow . For now , she appreciated its fight to cover the ham - stink that coated the room . The jingle bell chimed on Santa ’s cell . “ Nutcrackers , ” he said . “ Santa ca n’t reach it , and it ’s probably Ginny . Would you be a doll ? ” “ Your secretary ’s calling , and you need me to answer it ? How efficient . ” Betty wiped her fingers on a hand - towel . She lifted her headset ’s microphone to her mouth . “ Moroz out . Back in five . ” “ Copy that , ” Gomez said on the other end . “ It ’ll take that long to put Humpty back together again anyway . ” Betty switched off her headset mic . She unclipped the cell phone from the back of Santa ’s girdle , and pushed the button with the green arrow , serrated to look like a double - edged diving knife . Or a Christmas tree , if that was more your thing . “ Hey Ginny , ” Betty said into the phone . “ Oh hello , Mrs. Claus , ” Ginny said . “ Merry Christmas . ” “ For heaven ’s sake , call me Betty . ” “ Sorry , Mrs. Claus . Has Mr. Claus left yet ? ” “ On his way , ” Betty said . “ He was just thinking of the children . One at a time . He ’s very thorough . ” “ How wonderful ! ”