Mr. Chief Justice , and may it please the Court : Both courts below agreed and Goldsmith does n't dispute that Warhol 's Prince Series can reasonably be perceived to convey a fundamentally different meaning or message from Goldsmith 's photograph . The question in this case is whether that different meaning or message should play a role , any role , in the fair use analysis . Our answer is yes . Warhol 's transformative meaning puts points on the board under Factor 1 of the four - factor balancing test . Goldsmith and the Second Circuit say no . Warhol 's new meaning is categorically irrelevant and ca n't be considered as part of Factor 1 or any other factor . I want to emphasize three points . First , the precedent supports us . Campbell unambiguously requires an examination of meaning or message . Google reaffirms that test and cites Warhol 's Soup Cans as a paradigmatic example of when it 's satisfied . Goldsmith 's test is at odds with both cases . Second , our approach , unlike Goldsmith 's , maintains a balance between protecting artists ' rights to monetize their works and encouraging new and important follow - on expression . We give follow - on artists credit for innovation at Factor 1 while recognizing that Factor 4 and the other factors will sometimes cut decisively the other way . Goldsmith 's necessity test , by contrast , upends that balance . It banishes transformative meaning from the equation altogether , and by doing so , it violates 107 's text , contradicts precedent , and undermines copyright 's key goal , promoting creativity for the public good . Finally , the stakes for artistic expression in this case are high . A ruling for Goldsmith would strip protection not just from the Prince Series but from countless works of modern and contemporary art . It would make it illegal for artists , museums , galleries , and collectors to display , sell , profit from , maybe even possess a significant quantity of works . It would also chill the creation of new art by established and up - and - coming artists alike . These results are repugnant to copyright and to the First Amendment . You should reject them . We ask you to reaffirm Campbell and reverse the decision below . Could you give us an example of any follow - on work that fails your test ? Sure . I think a classic example would be a -- a book - to - movie adaptation . I think that would be a follow - on work . It would be a derivative work . I think , if you -- if someone were to , you know , try to do that , I think that the -- the original creator , the author of the book , could very easily assert that that was not fair use and would have a winning case under Factor 4 and probably also under Factor 1 . And , certainly , that would be a kind of classic example of a follow - on work that would not count . Why ? I mean , derivative works are generally in a different medium , and almost all of them , even a dramatization on -- on theater or even a motion picture or a sequel , they add something new according to your definition in your brief . So why should n't they be protected as well according to your theory ? Yeah , I think -- I think there 's a Factor 4 issue and a Factor 1 issue . I think the most obvious problem would be a Factor 4 problem for the person who 's trying to copy or -- or create the movie adaptation . I -- I 'm sorry . I read Factor 1 , the purpose and character of the use , including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes . So what 's the use here ? Is -- I think I have to look at a use under 1 as well . So is the use the creation of the Prince Series by Warhol ? Is it the 2016 license of the Orange Prince ? That factor , I think , is telling me to look at a use . So which use are you looking at ? So -- so we think that both uses are directly implicated in this case . I know there 's a significant amount of confusion between our side and the other side on this , so I 'd like to try to clarify it . This case came about because Ms. Goldsmith contacted the foundation , asserted that -- that the -- the original Warhol works were infringing , demanded a quite substantial seven - figure sum of money , and also demanded the copyrights in the work . I -- We then filed -- I 'm -- I 'm putting that aside . Sure . Okay ? They can tell us whether they 're claiming -- I think they 're out of the statute of limitations , so they ca n't claim that . But – So I think the only thing they can claim under the statute is the 2016 license . No , respectfully , Your Honor , that 's not right , because what they claimed in their -- in their brief -- in their complaint , and this is at JA 120 to 121 , was that they said that we were not allowed to invoke our copyright in the works . And that was n't just a past question that 's sort of like water under the bridge because of the statute of limitations . That has ongoing significance because , if we -- Alright . So then I want to break them down . Assume that it 's the creation . I understand your argument . It was a painting . It was a comment on consumerism . If that 's all he did , that 's one thing . But let 's look at the 2016 license of Orange Prince , which is what I thought this case was about , but putting that aside , assume it 's that . Okay . Assuming -- assuming that we 're just talking about that piece of the case , the licensing use -- Right . -- even with respect to the licensing use , you 'd still need to look at Factor 1 , which would look at -- at the purpose and character of the use . And that would certainly encompass the fact that Warhol 's use , the image that 's being licensed , was transformative and created -- and -- and -- and infused a new meaning or message on top of Goldsmith 's original work . That I give you -- I spot you . It should be considered . Well – The Second Circuit did n't . But then what do I do with the rest of Factor 1 , the purpose and use and -- and character of the use ? Because that 's not just up to the author . That 's up to what was made , what use was made of Orange Prince . It was a highly commercial use . Goldsmith also licensed her photographs to magazines , just as Warhol 's estate did .