Hear ye , hear ye , hear ye . All persons having any business before this honorable Supreme Court of the State of Hawaiʻi , draw nigh , give your attention and you shall be heard . E noho i lalo . Please be seated . Please call the case . SCAP-22-368 , Sonia Davis , Jessica Lau , Lauralee B. Riedell , and Adam M. Walton , plaintiffs ' appellees , versus Richard T. Bissen Jr. , County of Maui , Office of the Mayor , Scott Teruya , County of Maui , Department of Finance , and County of Maui , defendants ' appellants . Bradley Sova , arguing for defendants ' appellants , Jungwook " Wookie " Kim , arguing for plaintiffs ' appellees . Argument on the merits . Alright , good afternoon . Aloha everyone . Today 's proceeding is being broadcast live on the Judiciary 's YouTube channel as well as on ʻŌlelo . I 'd like to welcome our substitute justices , Judge Shanlyn Park and Judge Jim Kawashima . I 'd also like to welcome teachers from the Department of Education who are visiting the courthouse today and are in our courtroom . Counselor , are you both ready to proceed ? Alright . Court 's allocated 30 minutes for each side . Just to confirm , Mr. Sova , you 've reserved 10 minutes for rebuttal , so your initial argument will go for 20 minutes and then we 'll give you a warning at that point . Mr. Kim , you 'll have 30 minutes . We 'll give you a five - minute warning . Alright , Mr. Sova , please proceed . May it please the Court . I want to focus today on two primary issues . First , what is the specific interest at issue in this case ? And second , what specific process is necessary to protect this interest ? I believe that discussion will make clear that the interest here is possession of personal property and that process due is not a contested case under Chapter 91 . As such , we believe the Circuit Court erred in finding jurisdiction over this matter . In general , a claim of due process right to a hearing has two steps . First , is the particular interest property within the due process clause ? And second , if the interest is property , what specific procedures are required to protect the interest ? Now , something that 's created a lot of confusion in this case is there are really two asserted interests here . First is the interest in property itself , and second is an interest in occupying and maintaining that property on public lands . Now , as to the property itself , the Circuit Court correctly concluded that personal property is something that people have a due process interest in . The record is replete with case law that says exactly that , and I 'm not here to dispute that today . But I want to talk about a second interest that can be seen in this record , and that is the right to occupy public land , the right to maintain personal property on public land . And although plaintiffs have a protected interest in their property , they do n't have a protected interest in occupying public land , maintaining their property on public land , or dictating the county 's management of the lands under its control . And plaintiffs have described their interests this way . Appellants in their notice of appeal stated they appealed from a final decision to , quote , " execute the forced eviction and vacature of people and their belongings from punitive County of Maui property . " But this is n't an interest that the state or federal constitutions protect . It 's not something that there is a legitimate claim of entitlement to . And the case law makes it clear that there is no such claim of entitlement . In Lavan , the Court stated " the District Court did not recognize , and we do not now address , the existence of a constitutionally protected property right to leave possessions unattended on public sidewalks . " Later , the Court goes on to say , " nor does this appeal concern any purported right to use public sidewalks as storage facilities . " And there are many , many other case law citations that support that there is not a due process right to maintain property on public property , even if there is a due process right in possession of the property itself . And because this interest is not property , there 's not a due process right that attaches to this interest . Even so , the County did afford at least some process on the issue of maintaining people and possessions on these lands . Can you explain to me , how is it that you 're divorcing these two interests ? I mean , there 's a conced- -- I thought I heard you concede that the the chattels are personal property is property for due process analysis . And if you look at the cases from the Ninth Circuit and elsewhere , it does n't seem to be much doubt that we assume that it 's property for due process analysis , whether it 's on public sidewalk or not . So I 'm not sure that -- about the distinction you 're trying to draw , are you suggesting there 's some sort of a lesser property interest here because the property , it was kept on public property ? I 'm not sure I get that , or how I see it 's consistent with the cases that have been cited to us . So thank you for the question . Yes , there is an interest in possession of the property itself . And the courts that have looked at this have stated that possession of the property is the protected right , even when it 's maintained on public land , even when it 's maintained on lands in violation of trespass statutes . So I 'm not saying that the property loses protections when it 's on public land . What I 'm saying is that there 's been a separate argument that 's permeated all these cases that is talking about the right to maintain the property on public land . This is not necessarily a protected interest itself . The protected interest is in continued possession of the property , regardless of its location . Is there any specific case that you can point to , though , that distinguishes or sets some boundary as to placement and when it becomes occupation subject to eviction ? Because if you are going to separate property right in the race itself from the location of it , then I 'm not clear on whether any of the cases cited actually draws that distinction . They seem to be primarily based on occupation that amounts to trespass or occupation using the property in effect as a proxy for trespass . So where does that separation flow from ? I think the problem has been that in many of the cases that are cited , the municipalities have stated that there 's no interest in the property because it 's maintained on public land . There 's no interest in the property because it 's maintained on land in violation of trespass statutes . The distinction I 'm trying to draw is that we 're conflating two different issues . The interest in possession of the property itself , which is constitutionally protected , and the ability to store property or maintain property on public land , which is not necessarily protected . And that is suggested in Lavan based upon the citations I just gave . So what are you suggesting would have been the proper process that is due under these circumstances to protect the property that you acknowledge the plaintiffs -- in which the plaintiffs have a property right that you acknowledge ? The proper process to protect the property at issue is the process that been acknowledged in multiple cases , most notably deOccupy Honolulu , where there was inventorying , storage , and the ability to reclaim property . Right . So that did not happen here , right ? That did not happen . Correct . So you are acknowledging a due process violation here then ? I 'm conceding that there may be a due process violation based upon the failure to provide those specific procedures . And it 's our position that those specific procedures are the ones that are required by due process and not a Chapter 91 contested case here . So yes , there is a concession there , but not one that would rise to the level of -- How were the plaintiffs supposed to -- what were they supposed to do when the notice gave no notice whatsoever , as to how they were supposed to , what would happen to their property if it was confiscated ? Well , I will note there was an availability of alternative procedures here . First , all the cases , even those that have recognized the property right and the possessions have acknowledged that the property will not be implicated in the action if it 's removed from the property at issue . That does n't eliminate the due process right over the property itself , but it is something that we believe is mitigating here . Additionally , there were alternatives -- I 'm sorry . So what were they supposed to do ? File a dec action ? Is that your suggestion ? I think that would be one course of relief . And had that been done here , it may have stopped the sweep from moving forward at all . But that 's not -- So contacting and speaking to the mayor directly was not enough ? So there was contact with the mayor . I believe that occurred on September 17th from the record . And at that time , the mayor did speak individually with Ms. Lau as well as Ms. Davis .