Reports : ' streamlined ' UK asylum process to replace interview with questionnaire for five nationalities Thursday , February 23 , 2023 Braverman ( left ) and Sunak ( right ) on October 25 , 2022 . Image : UK Government . The Border Force vessel HMC Searcher on The Solent on February 8 , 2010 . Image : Brian Burnell . The United Kingdom Home Office today is to begin issuing questionnaires in place of official interviews to determine refugee status for some 12,000 asylee hopefuls from Afghanistan , Eritrea , Libya , Syria and Yemen who applied before last summer . The forms are part of Prime Minister Rishi Sunak 's effort to clear the nation 's 92,000 asylum claim - ' legacy backlog ' by year end . While standard security , criminal , and health checks will continue , officials will scrap the face - to - face interview step to " streamline " processing for five nationalities whose claim acceptance rate is already above 95 % . The document , which media reports range from ten to 32 pages with 40 to 50 questions , " must be completed in English " , the government recommending " online translation tools " if needed . It also must be returned within twenty working days . A leaked internal letter seen by Sky News says " failure to return the questionnaire without reasonable explanation may result in an individual 's asylum claim being withdrawn in line with the published policy " , but the government will provide a reminder after the deadline and consider extensions . Officials tell BBC News every claim will be assessed meritocratically , with the i reporting no one will be refused " based solely on the response of the questionnaire " . A similar fast - track system backed by the British Red Cross in September 2021 for 3,000 Afghan refugees was reportedly rejected by Prime Minister Boris Johnson over fears it would amount to amnesty , which the Home Office today rejects , and strain the UK 's welfare and housing systems . Labour 's Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper said her party has supported the idea " for months " , and said it was " damning that the Home Office is n't doing this already [ ... ] including for safe countries like Albania " after the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees " recommended it two years ago . " She continued : " Labour has a common - sense plan to fast - track cases , get return agreements in place so unsuccessful claims can be quickly and safely returned , and take much stronger action against the criminal gangs driving dangerous small boat crossings . " Figures to be published today show a record 45,756 migrants crossing the Channel last year drove outstanding asylum claims over 150,000 , also a record . Sunak has made tackling migration one of his main priorities , with laws banning illegal migrants from claiming asylum in the UK expected next month . The Home Office letter reads " we may extend the use of the questionnaire as a means to gather additional information from other claimants awaiting an asylum decision in due course " , but no current plans to expand the scheme exist . Braverman with France 's interior and overseas minister Gérald Darmanin in Paris on November 14 , 2022 . Image : Home Office . On Wednesday , Home Secretary Suella Braverman told GB News : " It 's clear that we have an unsustainable situation in towns and cities around our country [ ... ] because of the overwhelming numbers of people arriving here illegally and our legal duties to accommodate them " . But media have said the questionnaires attract criticism both for making it easier for some asylum seekers to obtain the right to live and work in the UK , and for presenting a burden on those who may not speak English or have access to help or legal counsel . The Guardian cited examples of complicated questions with over fifty words , including : " Were you subject to human trafficking ( the recruitment , transportation , transfer , harbouring or receipt of people through force , fraud or deception , with the aim of exploiting them for profit ) or modern slavery ( severe exploitation of other people for personal or commercial gain ) during your journey to or after you arrived in the UK ? " It quoted critics like immigration barrister Colin Yeo , and Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants campaigner Caitlin Boswell , with Boswell stating : " People fleeing desperate circumstances clearly need this government to make quicker and fairer asylum decisions , but this latest move from government is clumsy , unthinking and could put people ’s safety at risk . " No one ’s right to refuge should be jeopardised because they were n't able to fill in an unwieldy form in a language they do n’t speak . " After the leak , CEO of the Refugee Council Enver Solomon told Sky News any process " must be well thought out " : " Moves to reduce the backlog are welcome but the answer is not yet more bureaucratic hurdles and threats of applications being withdrawn . " After living in worry and uncertainty for months and even years without hearing anything about their claims , it can not then be fair or reasonable to expect people to complete a lengthy form only in English in a matter of weeks especially for those who do n't have access to legal advice and do n't speak English . " During Prime Minister 's Questions Wednesday , Sunak defended the government 's record whilst promising a " formal update " from Braverman is forthcoming : " The Home Secretary and I are working intensely and as quickly as possible to bring forward that legislation [ ... ] in the meantime our deals with Albania and France are already yielding benefits [ ... ] we want a system whereby if someone arrives in our country illegally they will not be able to stay . "