Łódź Łódź ( Pronounced : Wootch ) is Poland 's third biggest city , and the capital of the Łódzkie Voivodship . Unlike most other large Polish cities , which have long histories , Łódź was created almost from scratch during the 19th century textile industry boom to house textile mills , their owners and their workers , and rapidly grew to become an important industrial and commerce centre . In recent years , Łódź has been battling rising unemployment and youth migration resulting from the failing textile industry and is repositioning itself as a hub for design and creative industries . Owing to its history , Łódź has an impressive collection of residential , commercial and industrial 19th - century architecture including some of Europe 's largest factory buildings , now mostly repurposed as shopping centres or lofts . Recent local investment and a long - standing cultural scene ensures there is always something more to do than just sightseeing or shopping , with the city hosting some of the best museums and art galleries in the country . The close proximity of Warsaw and Łódź 's location at the crossroads of the Polish motorway system make it an ideal destination for a day trip or longer city break . Understand Historic fire station in Księży Młyn area Name and history The origin of the city 's name is unknown , however , the word łódź translates to " boat " in English . This is referred to in the emblem and when you hear the dwellers of Łódź ( łodzianin ( man ) łodzianka ( woman ) łodzianie ( plural ) ) calling themselves " the boat people " . A settlement on the area of present - day Łódź was established in the 14th century and in 1423 it was granted a town charter , along with the right to have a marketplace . However , the real development of Łódź started with the industrial era at the beginning of the 19th century when the city was chosen to be the heart of the rapidly - growing textile industry . The population of Łódź soared from some 4,000 people in the 1830s and 40,000 in 1865 to over 300,000 inhabitants at the turn of the century , which was an unprecedented growth on a worldwide scale . The rapid development of Łódź in the second half of the 19th century was brought about by the rise of enormous industrialist fortunes . New inhabitants , craftsmen and merchants came to Łódź ; markets and town fairs came to life . The profits obtained from prosperous textile mills opened up practically unlimited possibilities for their owners . The city residences became expressions of the riches and power of the local tycoons . They were usually situated next to the owner 's factory . Ever since the industrial revolution brought a massive influx of workforce , Łódź had been a city almost equally divided between four cultures - Polish , Jewish , German and Russian . The day before the outbreak of World War II , Łódź was inhabited by approximately 672,000 people , among whom 35 % were of Jewish faith and some 15 % were ethnic German . Andrzej Wajda 's movie , Promised Land based on a novel by the Nobel laureate Władysław Reymont , depicts those times and is a worthwhile introduction to the city 's bustling history . During the Nazi occupation , Łódź was incorporated directly into the Third Reich . The city was renamed to Litzmannstadt , and Piotrkowska Street was called Adolf - Hitler - Strasse . The Jewish community was practically wiped out , and many others lost their lives . Although the city was not destroyed in the aftermath , the material losses were serious as the machinery , raw materials and finished goods were taken away by the fleeing Nazis . The day before the liberation , about 80,000 Germans left Łódź in panic . At the beginning of 1945 , the population was estimated at 300,000 . Plac Wolności Łódź today Since the fall of communism in Poland , Łódź has not enjoyed the rapid economic growth cities like Kraków , Warsaw and Wrocław have experienced , and has had to endure the fall of much of its textile industry , rising unemployment and emigration ( within Poland and abroad ) . This led to further dilapidation of the investment - starved city , and many of its streets and buildings show profound signs of neglect . At first glance , for a city of 760,000 and agglomeration of 1.428,000 , there does not seem to be much to see . However , the situation is rapidly changing now with Łódź campaigning and redesigning itself as an up - and - coming destination . To accomplish this , Łódź has been capitalizing on its film history - Łódź is jokingly referred to as the " HollyŁódź " of Poland and hosts several film festivals and many other cultural events . Łódź today may not have the glitz and glamour of its heyday ; however , there is a certain charm to Łódź in its partially renovated façades and leitmotivs , not to mention its grand artistic traditions .