What you 're hearing is Mangal Shobhajatra , an annual procession of thousands of people that takes over the streets of Bangladesh 's capital city , Dhaka . It marks the start of the Bengali New Year , and as you might expect of a New Year 's celebration , it 's a very festive affair . Not long ago , UNSECO , which is the educational , scientific and cultural agency of the United Nations , named this parade intangible cultural heritage . But what might look like just a street party is actually a creative stand for unity and against the forces of intolerance who seek to divide and oppress Bangladeshis . Welcome to Into the Deep , The Global Voices podcast , where we dig deep into one topic that is n't getting the media coverage it deserves . I 'm Lauren , news editor at Global Voices . I live in Bilbao , Spain . And I 'm Sahar , managing editor at Global Voices . I 'm currently in Lahore , Pakistan , and today we are digging deep into Bangladesh 's Mangal Shobhajatra . The tide of xenophobia has seemingly swept Europe and the United States in recent years , culminating in 2016 with the UK 's vote to leave the European Union and the election of Donald Trump in the US . But intolerance is not a phenomenon that 's exclusive to the Western world by any means . From Myanmar to South Africa to Indonesia , there are those who view diversity as a source of fear rather than strength . What about you ? Do you disagree with this trend ? And are you thinking about what to do to combat these forces that want to sow the seeds of division ? Perhaps then Bangladesh and its unique New Year 's procession can offer some inspiration . Mangal sh- -- . How does it go ? Mangal Shobhajatra . It 's -- in Bangla we always pronounce o , so it 's a a -- Although it is written in English as M A N , but it sounds more like Mongol . O . Okay . And the second part ? Say it again very slowly . Shobhajatra . Shobha- . Shobha- . Shobhajatra . Okay , perfect . We do n't want to mess it up . Mangal Shobhajatra . Yeah , Mangal Shobhajatra . That 's Rezwan . This is Rezwan from Bangladesh . He 's a blogger and the South Asia editor for Global Voices . Mangal Shobhajatra is like a carnival or a victory rally . It 's it ’s very loud , with people shouting , shouting different slogans and , uh , they 're singing , they 're dancing and people participate with uh joy . It 's a vibrant , colorful , creative , open for all secular identity . Uh , a lot of fun is here . And that 's Pantha . This is also from Dhaka , Bangladesh . He 's a copywriter and a member of the Global Voices community , who 's been writing for us now for several years . We spoke to both Pantha and Rezwan to learn more about Mangal Shobhajatra . Yeah , it it all starts with making of masks . Actually , the students of uh the Charukola Institute , which is the , uh , Faculty of Fine Arts of Dhaka University and uh they prepare all these , uh , all kinds of interesting masks , and they are very colorful , and they bear animals and demons and mythical mythical faces and all . And those are pretty interesting . And people carry those masks , uh , in , in batons , or they put it on their face and they , they dance and , uh , on the way there are like many street shops , uh , for food and , and and balloons , children are running around . The procession takes place every year on the morning of the first day of the Bengali calendar , which is April 14th or 15th . Students and teachers of Dhaka University 's Faculty of Fine Arts organize it and anyone is free to join in . Have either of you attended ? Yeah , uh , many times . Um , it 's one of the go go to things that -- uh , during the New Year celebration . So we have a kind of ritual . So , uh , on the first day of the new year , we go in the morning to listen to , uh , Rabindra Sangeet . That is uh Tagore songs . Rabindra Sangeet or Tagore songs or popular songs that were written in the late 19th and early 20th centuries by a man named Rabindranath Tagore . They 're often based on Hindustani classical music and folk music of Bengal . An interesting fact , Rabindranath Tagore was the first non-European to win the Nobel Prize in Literature .