Sept 15 , 1946 . Dear Katherine : I 'm not taking time for a real letter , but am venturing to send back by Roy Stinebower copies of two carbons of letters to my father . After a rather leisurely start , the conference has got well under way with a hurry , and everybody is keeping busy . Lionel and Bert and I all have lots to do . He is specializing more or less on Trieste , whil Bert and I cover pretty much everything else . Have been thinking of all of you people in LE , and want to be remembered to my friends . Will try to write a real letter before long . The Conference seems much busier now than it was a couple of weeks ago ; after doing nothing for so long a time , they are getting down to work in the several commissions . In addition to the regularly scheduled commissions , there are also some meetings going on of the four Drafting Powers , in an effort to avoid long delays ( especially after the completion of the Paris Conference itself ) . While I 've been pretty busy , there has still been occasional time I could get off for one thing or another . Last night several of us went to l' Opera to hear the Flying Dutchman , or Vaisseau Phantome , as it is called here . Although none of the singers were particularly well - known , at least to me , the performance was good . I thought the stage setting particularly well done , with the one boat on the stage in the foreground and the other shown on a screen by shadow ; the ghost ship made its proper disappearance , etc. , in silhouette . The house was filled , but not with the same sort of audience as had attended the ballet in honor of the opening of the conference last July . On several occasions last week I had lunch at the Luxembourg between m etings , and then was able to walk back in the latter part of the afternoon . The meals served in a special restaurant for the delegates are good , and there is sometimes rather interesting company . On Thurday Bert and I ate there with M. Shaganon , the secretary of the Legal and Drafting Commission , and found it a good opportunity to practice French , for he is one of the few around who does not insist on speaking English . Friday morning there was scheduled a meeting of a subcommission to draft the exact description of the French - Italian frontier in places where Italy makes smsll grants to France . Thursday evening Bert and I went over the description with Otto Guthe , our geographer , on a series of maps at abaut 3 inches to a mile , rather interesting in mountain country . Then on Friday the meeting was not held , after all , so we walked back from the Luxembourg . As it had turned off a sunny morning , we detoured somewhat , and visited the old church of St. Severin on the left bank , and then the little church of St. Julien le Pauvre , just across the river from Notre Dame and used by the students and faculties as the University Church back in the twelfth to sixteenth centuries . We looked around in Notre Dame a while , getting good light on he stained glass windows , and also revisited the Sainte Chapelle . All of the thirteenth century staind glass windows on the south side are now back in , and they are replacing those on the north side ( removed , of course , for safety at the start of the war ) . Altho it is not yet a magnificent in appearance as with all the glass in , the windows are beautiful with their blues and purple and red . Friday was Jack Reinstein 's birthday , and a large number of the delegation celebrated it with a cocktail party . I do n't know about the quality of the drinks , but the sandwiches and nuts prepared by some from the PX supplies went very well . Several of us had enough in the way of sandwiches so that we did not want a regular dinner afterwards , and therefore finished off at the PX Sugarbowl with American milkshakes and sundaes . It is rather interesting how one gets to depend on the various army facilities like the PX for its weekly supplies and the Sugarbowl as almost the only source of milk products ( the French " glaces " being very obviously water ices rather than icecreams ) . The weather has been better the last few days , though it usually rains at least once a day . On Thursday morning we had a 9 A.M. meeting at the Luxembourg , and ev yyone going over in the car spoke of how it seemed like the start of school in the fall , with a hazy Indian summer type of sunshine , and temperatures around 60 . Today is partly clear , and I hope I may be able to get out somewhere after the meeting which begins at 11 and will r until about 2 . I have gone over for one meeting this morning , and found it cancelled . Best wishes , Bill