Daisy by Andrew Willett It was Sunday in snowy Manhattan . Jenna was in the tub , and I was doing the Times crossword , listening to the clang of the radiators and the swish of the taxis on the slush outside , when my coffee - scented reverie was broken by a loud squawk from the bathroom , and a splash , and a flesh - upon - cold - tile sort of thump . “ Go away ! Shoo ! Get out of my bathroom ! ” I threw down my pen and dashed down the hall . Jenna was picking herself up off the floor of the bathroom . In the bathtub , a bar of soap was gaily chasing a nylon scrubby thing around the surface of the water . “ Damned pixies ! ” Jenna said , smacking the bathtub ’s drain lever . “ Again ! I am so tired of these things ! ” A piteous squeak came from the scrubby thing as the water began to swirl down the drain . A translucent little head poked out from behind a pot of organic - sugarcane exfoliating body polish , and looked at me with exaggerated puppy eyes and a trembling lower lip . “ Sorry , kids , ” I said to the bathtub . “ Do n’t humor them , dammit , ” Jenna said , and stomped , still naked , still wet , toward the phone in the kitchen . She ’d be irritated by her own wet footprints on the battered wood of the hallway floor later , but right now she had blood on her mind . Or water . Ichor . Whatever it is that the common Manhattan water - pixie uses for blood . I could n’t say I blamed her . She got the brunt of the pixies ’ odd sense of humor much more than I did , because she ’s the one who likes to take baths . Although I will say that a pixie hiding in the sink among the dirty soup bowls makes doing the dishes an adventure . “ Ramon ? Hi . It ’s Jenna McMasters in 5C . Ramon , the pixies are out of control . You ’ve got to do something about — yes , I know — Ramon , the equinox is n’t for weeks and weeks . Really , we need you to do something sooner ... Well , I ’m just not ready to wait that long . We may have to try something on our own , then . Goodbye , Ramon . You ’ve been a huge goddamn help . ” She hung up the phone . “ Man , he ’s useless , ” she said . “ On the other hand , ” I said , “ he ’s the first super we ’ve had who keeps the boiler , the door buzzers , and the electrical system in perfect working order . ” I took the robe I ’d brought from the bathroom and wrapped it around her shoulders . “ What is it they say in yoga class ? Take a deep cleansing breath . Spiral out from your navel center , and stuff . ” “ Robert , this sort of thing never happened in San Francisco . ” “ No , ” I said . “ In San Francisco we got earthquakes , and there were wood sprites in Golden Gate Park . Welcome to New York . ” “ I keep trying to tell myself that this is cool . But then they come at me on a Sunday morning , when I have no work to do and I ’m trying to relax and I ’m naked , and I just lose it ... . ” “ And you take it out on the super , ” I said . “ And now I ’m gon na have a bruise on my butt , too , ” she said . “ Well , that ’s karma for you . Now stretch out on the couch , and I ’ll bring you coffee and rub your feet . ” Jenna smiled . “ Just make sure there are no pixies in the coffee pot , is all I ask . ” Ugh . That was our previous Sunday morning adventure : most unpleasant , and marked by the death of a new French - press pot . I realized that I , too , hated the pixies . “ We need a plan , ” I said .