Jerome Jerome ( / dʒəˈroʊm / ; Latin : Eusebius Sophronius Hieronymus ; Greek : Εὐσέβιος Σωφρόνιος Ἱερώνυμος ; c. 347 – 30 September 420 ) was a Latin Catholic priest , confessor , theologian , and historian , commonly known as Saint Jerome . He was born at Stridon , a village near Emona on the border of Dalmatia and Pannonia . [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] He is best known for his translation of most of the Bible into Latin ( the translation that became known as the Vulgate ) , and his commentaries on the Gospels . His list of writings is extensive . [ 6 ] The protégé of Pope Damasus I , who died in December of 384 , Jerome was known for his teachings on Christian moral life , especially to those living in cosmopolitan centers such as Rome . In many cases , he focused his attention on the lives of women and identified how a woman devoted to Jesus should live her life . This focus stemmed from his close patron relationships with several prominent female ascetics who were members of affluent senatorial families . [ 7 ] Jerome is recognised as a saint and Doctor of the Church by the Catholic Church , the Eastern Orthodox Church , the Lutheran Church , and the Anglican Communion . [ 8 ] His feast day is 30 September . Life Eusebius Sophronius Hieronymus was born at Stridon around 347 AD . [ 9 ] He was of Illyrian ancestry , [ 10 ] although his ability to speak the Illyrian languages causes controversy . He was not baptized until about 360 - 366 , when he had gone to Rome with his friend Bonosus of Sardica ( who may or may not have been the same Bonosus whom Jerome identifies as his friend who went to live as a hermit on an island in the Adriatic ) to pursue rhetorical and philosophical studies . He studied under the grammarian Aelius Donatus . There Jerome learned Latin and at least some Greek , [ 11 ] though probably not the familiarity with Greek literature he would later claim to have acquired as a schoolboy . [ 12 ] As a student in Rome , Jerome engaged in the superficial escapades and sexual experimentation of students there , which he indulged in quite casually but for which he suffered terrible bouts of guilt afterwards . [ 13 ] [ better source needed ] To appease his conscience , he would visit on Sundays the sepulchres of the martyrs and the Apostles in the catacombs . This experience would remind him of the terrors of hell : Often I would find myself entering those crypts , deep dug in the earth , with their walls on either side lined with the bodies of the dead , where everything was so dark that almost it seemed as though the Psalmist 's words were fulfilled , Let them go down quick into Hell . [ 14 ] Here and there the light , not entering in through windows , but filtering down from above through shafts , relieved the horror of the darkness . But again , as soon as you found yourself cautiously moving forward , the black night closed around and there came to my mind the line of Vergil , " Horror ubique animos , simul ipsa silentia terrent " . [ 15 ] [ 16 ] St. Jerome in His Study ( 1480 ) , by Domenico Ghirlandaio Jerome used a quote from Virgil — " On all sides round horror spread wide ; the very silence breathed a terror on my soul " [ 17 ] — to describe the horror of hell . Jerome initially used classical authors to describe Christian concepts such as hell that indicated both his classical education and his deep shame of their associated practices , such as pederasty which was found in Rome . [ citation needed ] Conversion to Christianity St Jerome in the Nuremberg Chronicle " Although initially skeptical of Christianity , he was eventually converted . [ 18 ] After several years in Rome , he travelled with Bonosus to Gaul and settled in Trier where he seems to have first taken up theological studies , and where , for his friend Tyrannius Rufinus , he copied Hilary of Poitiers ' commentary on the Psalms and the treatise De synodis . Next came a stay of at least several months , or possibly years , with Rufinus at Aquileia , where he made many Christian friends . Some of these accompanied Jerome when about 373 , he set out on a journey through Thrace and Asia Minor into northern Syria . At Antioch , where he stayed the longest , two of his companions died and he himself was seriously ill more than once . During one of these illnesses ( about the winter of 373 - 374 ) , he had a vision that led him to lay aside his secular studies and devote himself to God . He seems to have abstained for a considerable time from the study of the classics and to have plunged deeply into that of the Bible , under the impulse of Apollinaris of Laodicea , then teaching in Antioch and not yet suspected of heresy . St. Jerome in the Desert , by Giovanni Bellini ( 1505 ) Seized with a desire for a life of ascetic penance , Jerome went for a time to the desert of Chalcis , to the southeast of Antioch , known as the " Syrian Thebaid " , from the number of eremites inhabiting it . During this period , he seems to have found time for studying and writing . He made his first attempt to learn Hebrew under the guidance of a converted Jew ; and he seems to have been in correspondence with Jewish Christians in Antioch . Around this time he had copied for him a Hebrew Gospel , of which fragments are preserved in his notes , and is known today as the Gospel of the Hebrews , and which the Nazarenes considered to be the true Gospel of Matthew . [ 19 ] Jerome translated parts of this Hebrew Gospel into Greek . [ 20 ]