1. Introduction Salinity is one of the most important marine parameters , which controls many processes such as physical circulations , biogeochemistry dynamics from regional to global ocean [ 1 , 2 ] . Although drifters and buoys , together with cruises , have accumulated large amount in - situ water salinity data in different regions , it is still difficult to monitor global ocean salinity with high temporal - spatial resolution by the in situ measurements . In the past decade , with the successful launch of the soil moisture and ocean salinity ( SMOS ) satellite by the European Space Agency ( ESA ) [ 3 ] , the Aquarius / SAC-D satellite [ 4 ] , and the soil moisture active passive ( SMAP ) satellite [ 5 , 6 ] by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) , global sea surface salinity ( SSS ) observations from space have become possible and a significant improvement has been made to understand the ocean dynamics and climate change . The early concept of remote sensing of SSS has been demonstrated in the late 1970s with observations by Skylab [ 7 ] and two airborne L - band radiometry experiments [ 8 , 9 ] . At the end of 1990 , two airborne microwave interferometers , the electronically scanned thinned array radiometer ( ESTAR ) and the scanning low - frequency microwave radiometer ( SLFMR ) , successfully produced SSS maps in coastal areas in agreement with in - situ measurements with an accuracy of about 1 psu . Based on many experiments , the L - band is evidenced as the optimal frequency for remote sensing of SSS , which has been adopted by SMOS , Aquarius / SAC-D and SMAP . However , the sensitivity of satellite measured brightness temperature to SSS is quite low . For example , the sensitivity of vertically polarized brightness temperature to SSS variation is 0.4 to 0.8 K/psu for different observing angles and sea surface temperatures ( SST ) , and it is only 0.2 to 0.6 K/psu for the horizontal polarization brightness temperature [ 10 ] . Thus , remote sensing of SSS requires a highly accurate retrieval model . It is widely accepted that the corrections of the sea surface and atmospheric effects are essential for remote sensing of SSS , since these effects could alter the value of sensor - measured brightness temperature and introduce errors into the SSS retrieval process . Besides the atmospheric effects , the increasing of sea surface emissivity due to the sea surface roughness and foam effects is the main source of error , which could significantly hamper the accuracy of SSS retrieval [ 11 ] . Over the past decades , the correction for sea surface roughness effects were studied based on the in - situ and airborne measurements ; for example , the experiments made from a tower [ 12 ] , wind and salinity experiments ( WISE ) [ 13 , 14 ] , airborne Passive - Active L - band Sensor ( PALS ) campaign [ 15 ] and Combined Airborne Radio instruments for Ocean and Land Studies ( CAROLS ) campaigns [ 16 , 17 ] . Many rough surface emission models have also been developed based on the theoretical and empirical methods . Among these models , the small - slope approximation / small perturbation model ( SSA / SPM ) [ 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 ] , two scale model ( TSM ) [ 22 , 23 , 24 ] and empirical / semi-empirical models [ 25 , 26 ] have been widely used by the research community and implemented in different satellite data processing systems . As the foam effect is significant at high wind speed conditions ( above a threshold of 12 m / s ) due to strong wave breaking , it has been corrected by numerous models ; for example , the semi-empirical models [ 27 , 28 ] and radiative transfer equation ( RTE ) based models [ 29 , 30 ] , which were developed to estimate the foam covered sea surface emissivity . Although many theoretical and empirical models have been developed , some problems are still unsolved . For example , the TSM originally proposed to estimate brightness temperature at higher frequencies , uses the sea surface wave spectrum by multiplying a factor of 2 . However , whether this modification can be applied to L - band is still unclear , and the choice of cutoff wavenumber is arbitrary and needs to be clarified in the L - band . Moreover , the sea surface reflection of downwelling atmospheric emission is another contribution to satellite - observed brightness temperature [ 31 ] , thus the determination of the cutoff wavenumber is required not only for sea surface emission but also for reflection . In addition , the widely used empirical models decouple the wind effect from SSS and SST effects , which means that the surface emission is due to a perfectly flat sea surface and the wind - roughened sea surface . The wind - roughened sea surface is associated with the increased brightness temperature ( due to sea surface roughness effect ) , which induces regional biases when applied to different areas [ 32 ] . Furthermore , the satellite measurements of SSS are hampered by the effect of radio frequency interference ( RFI ) in offshore areas of China ( i.e. , Bohai sea , Yellow sea and East China sea ) , which causes a large amount of data to be discarded [ 33 ] . Thus , the compatibility of these models in coastal area of China needs to be assessed and tested in order to achieve higher accuracies of SSS from the space - borne observations .