Australian children suffering from iodine deficiency Thursday , February 23 , 2006 Almost half of all Australian primary school children are mild to moderately iodine deficient , researchers say . A new study documenting iodine nutritional status in Australian school children has revealed many are not getting enough iodine - which can lead to mental and growth retardation . The report 's authors say iodine deficiency is " the sleeper health issue in Australia " , and potentially a very serious one . The results of the Australian National Iodine Nutrition Study published in the Medical Journal of Australia this week , revealed that children in mainland Australia are borderline iodine deficient . The report has prompted calls for all edible salt to be iodised . They say adding the mineral to salt is the simplest and most effective method of preventing iodine deficiency disorders . A cross-sectional survey of 1709 schoolchildren - aged 8 – 10 years , from 88 schools - was carried out in New South Wales , Victoria , South Australia , Western Australia and Queensland , between July 2003 and December 2004 . Tasmania was excluded from the study - where an voluntary iodine fortification program using iodised salt in bread , is ongoing . The authors say the results confirm the existence of inadequate iodine intake in the Australian population . They call for " urgent implementation of mandatory iodisation of all edible salt in Australia . " Most iodine in food comes from seafood , milk and iodised salt . Professor Cres Eastman , Director of the National Iodine Nutrition study , and Chairman of the Australian Centre for Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders , says it is crucial that children and pregnant women in particular have an adequate intake of iodine . Iodine deficiency can lead to serious health problems including brain damage , stunted growth and deafness . Professor Eastman says manufacturers could easily remedy the situation by using iodised salt in their products in line with the United States and most European countries . " I suspect they wo n't do that on a voluntary basis , we 've tried so far and have n't succeeded , so we 've convinced the Food Standards of Australia and New Zealand | that all salt should be iodised , " he said . The report says the decline in iodine intake appears to be due to changes in the dairy industry , where chlorine - containing sanitisers have replaced iodine - containing sanitisers . Iodine released from these chemicals into milk has been the major source of dietary iodine in Australia for at least four decades , but is now declining . Another contributory factor has been the decreasing consumption of iodised salt used in foods . The report states that few if any food manufacturers use iodised salt in the preparation and manufacture of foods . Professor Eastman says iodine is added to only 10 per cent of Australian salt in contravention of a World Health Organisation recommendation that all salt be iodised . He says authorities are reacting slowly to his urgent calls for mandatory iodised salt . " The effects of iodine deficiency are dependent upon how severe it is and when it occurs . So if we go to the pregnant woman , she does n't get enough iodine , she wo n't make enough thyroid hormone , and the foetus wo n't get the amount of thyroid hormone it needs for adequate and proper development of the brain , so you 'll then see consequences being loss of IQ , learning difficulties , hearing difficulties and other neurological problems , " Professor Eastman said . " If an infant 's not getting enough iodine ... brain development wo n't be completed and they wo n't grow normally , and as you get older the problem will be that you will develop a goiter and your thyroid wo n't function as well as it should , so that may have all sorts of pernicious effects upon normal function in life . " More than two billion people around the world live in areas prone to iodine deficiency , and yet the problem is easily fixed . The World Health Organisation ( WHO ) recommends that every country should iodise all edible salt . The most well known effects of IDD are visible goiter and cretinism , a condition characterised by severe brain damage occurring in very early life . WHO say Iodine deficiency is the world ’s most prevalent , yet easily preventable , cause of brain damage . Professor Eastman said he is alarmed by what they found . " Pregnant women in Australia are getting about half as much as what they require on a daily basis . So that alarms me , because there 's quite serious potential for adverse effects and brain damage in the next generation of children born in this country , " he said . " If Iodine deficiency is serious you lose 15 IQ points , on average . There should n't be anyone suffering from iodine deficiency in a developed country like Australia . " Lydia Buchtmann for Food Standards Australia New Zealand , says they are looking at mandatory guidelines on iodine by the end of the year . She says the issue is complicated and will take time to get right . We need to " make sure there 's sufficient iodine added into the food supply , to help those people with a deficiency . But at the other end of the scale we 've got to make sure the people who eat a lot of food - we all know the teenage boy who comes home from school and eats a whole loaf of bread - that those people do n't get too much and get overdose , " Ms Bauchtman said . " One of the reasons that iodine is going down is because people are taking that good healthy eating message and not adding salt during cooking . " Senior researcher Mu Li , of the University of NSW 's school of public health , said " it is reasonable to assume that pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers are also iodine deficient , putting the next generation of children born in this country at risk of the neuropsychological consequences of iodine deficiency . "