Why the Division of Labor Increases Production When we divide and subdivide the tasks involved with producing a good or service , workers and businesses can produce a greater quantity of output . In his observations of pin factories , Smith noticed that one worker alone might make 20 pins in a day , but that a small business of 10 workers ( some of whom would need to complete two or three of the 18 tasks involved with pin - making ) , could make 48,000 pins in a day . How can a group of workers , each specializing in certain tasks , produce so much more than the same number of workers who try to produce the entire good or service by themselves ? Smith offered three reasons . First , specialization in a particular small job allows workers to focus on the parts of the production process where they have an advantage . ( In later chapters , we will develop this idea by discussing comparative advantage . ) People have different skills , talents , and interests , so they will be better at some jobs than at others . The particular advantages may be based on educational choices , which are in turn shaped by interests and talents . Only those with medical degrees qualify to become doctors , for instance . For some goods , geography affects specialization . For example , it is easier to be a wheat farmer in North Dakota than in Florida , but easier to run a tourist hotel in Florida than in North Dakota . If you live in or near a big city , it is easier to attract enough customers to operate a successful dry cleaning business or movie theater than if you live in a sparsely populated rural area . Whatever the reason , if people specialize in the production of what they do best , they will be more effective than if they produce a combination of things , some of which they are good at and some of which they are not . Second , workers who specialize in certain tasks often learn to produce more quickly and with higher quality . This pattern holds true for many workers , including assembly line laborers who build cars , stylists who cut hair , and doctors who perform heart surgery . In fact , specialized workers often know their jobs well enough to suggest innovative ways to do their work faster and better . A similar pattern often operates within businesses . In many cases , a business that focuses on one or a few products ( sometimes called its “ core competency ” ) is more successful than firms that try to make a wide range of products . Third , specialization allows businesses to take advantage of economies of scale , which means that for many goods , as the level of production increases , the average cost of producing each individual unit declines . For example , if a factory produces only 100 cars per year , each car will be quite expensive to make on average . However , if a factory produces 50,000 cars each year , then it can set up an assembly line with huge machines and workers performing specialized tasks , and the average cost of production per car will be lower . The ultimate result of workers who can focus on their preferences and talents , learn to do their specialized jobs better , and work in larger organizations is that society as a whole can produce and consume far more than if each person tried to produce all of his or her own goods and services . The division and specialization of labor has been a force against the problem of scarcity .