Discussion We have shown that the addition of an artificial tail during ontogeny can produce postural and locomotory changes in chickens , consistent with the posture and kinematics inferred for non-avian dinosaurs [ 5 ] , [ 6 ] , [ 11 ] . The posterior displacement of the CoM produced a more vertically oriented femur during standing ( femur in experimental animals was 40 % more vertical than control subjects ) , and increased femoral retraction and decreased knee flexion during walking . These results indicate a shift from the standard bird , knee - driven bipedal locomotion to a more hip - driven locomotion , typical of crocodilians ( the only other extant archosaur group ) , mammals , and hypothetically , bipedal non-avian dinosaurs . These postural and kinematics changes can not be attributed to an increased weight as subjects of the control - weight group did not show the same changes as the experimental group . In fact , the control - weight subjects showed a more horizontally oriented femur during walking with respect to the control group , similar to that observed in Carrano and Biewener 's experimental subjects [ 7 ] . Therefore , we conclude that the location of the CoM can be a key factor in defining limb posture and kinematics . It has been proposed that the relative mass of the CFL can be used as a proxy to estimate the relative importance of femoral retraction during locomotion in extinct bipedal dinosaurs [ 8 ] . Our data show that for a given CFL mass , femoral retraction can be greatly affected by the location of the CoM and limb postures . Furthermore , limb retraction can be markedly modulated with speed [ 5 ] , suggesting caution when using simple morphological parameters to estimate functional relationships . Differences in limb orientation can produce substantial differences in loading regimes on limb bones . The orientation of each limb element to the ground reaction force ( GRF ) indicates the relative contribution of axial and bending forces to external bone loading : a bone perpendicular to the GRF is expected experience greater bending forces than one parallel to the GRF . Because bone adapts to its loading environment [ 19 ] , [ 20 ] , [ 21 ] , geometric information from limb bones , such as lengths and cross-sectional geometry , are expected to reflect differences in loading regimes and consequently in behavior and locomotor patterns [ 22 ] , [ 23 ] . In this framework , scaling differences in femoral geometry between non-avian theropods and birds have been suggested to be the result of postural differences between these groups [ 6 ] , [ 23 ] . Birds have relatively shorter , stouter femora than non-avian theropods , presumed to be associated with more horizontal orientation . Experimental manipulations of femoral orientation in chickens suggest that torsional loads increase as the femur becomes more horizontal [ 7 ] supporting the idea that postural differences could be reflected in differences in limb cross-sectional geometry . To test if the postural differences observed in this study produced changes in limb morphology , we measured the length and mid-shaft cross-sectional properties of the femur in all our individuals . However , we found no differences in cross-sectional femoral geometry among groups . Maybe this is not surprising considering that a recent study analyzing the relationship between posture and femur cross-sectional properties failed to find differences between birds and non-avian theropods [ 24 ] , suggesting that simple morphological correlates of limb posture should be used with caution . Interestingly , femur length tended to be greater in the experimental group than in both the control - weight and the control group ( by 4 and 7 % , respectively ) , although not signifcant . Longer limbs are expected to experience larger bending and torsional moments , so the fact that experimental animals had longer femora suggests that limb verticalization reduces these moments by orienting the bone more parallel to the GRF line of action . If this were the case , it would support the idea that non-avian theropods have relatively thinner femora than extant birds because of postural differences [ 6 ] . The present study was inspired by Carrano & Biewener [ 7 ] but our results differed markedly from theirs . We suggest that the different outcomes are due to the distinct rearing and exercising conditions used in each study , in addition to the different artificial tails used . First , our experimental subjects lived in a large enclosure under conditions that allowed them to exercise all day long . In Carrano & Biewener 's study , experimental chickens were housed individually in smaller cages and were only allowed to exercise 20 minutes per day , 3 days per week , from the 6th to the 12th week . Second , in their study , a lead mass was attached at the distal end of the experimental tail , probably generating excessive displacement of the CoM . During avian evolution , the loss of the CFL and reorganization of the pelvic musculature [ 5 ] , [ 13 ] could have made birds unable to properly carry a postacetabular mass equivalent to that carried by non-avian theropods [ 5 ] , [ 6 ] . In our experimental setup , we attempted to more closely mimic non-avian theropod tail morphology , in which mass is distributed through a distally tapering tail . In addition , we reduced the total tail mass to 15 % body mass from the 20 % body mass used by Carrano and Biewener . Thus , our study seems to have generated a more gradual and less pronounced change in the moment of inertia produced by the artificial tail , allowing experimental subjects to adjust to the posterior mass by adopting a more vertical position of the femur while standing . Interestingly , the femur kinematics during walking in our control - weight group resembles the results reported in the experimental subjects of Carrano and Biewener . This suggests that their results could be partially explained as a response to the increased loading rather than to the displacement of the CoM . Due to the phylogenetic relatedness , extant birds have been used to inform functional aspects of non-avian dinosaur locomotion . However , substantial differences in hindlimb morphology between these groups make difficult to assess the validity of inferences obtained from such studies . It has even been proposed that , due to functional convergence , mammals might be a better system to study bipedal dinosaur locomotion [ 7 ] , [ 23 ] , but the results reported here show that important aspects of non-avian theropod locomotion can be experimentally recreated in modern birds . One caveat , however , is that our approach uses tail reduction as the mechanism for CoM displacement despite it has been recently shown that the evolutionary change in CoM position was driven instead by forelimb enlargement [ 8 ] . Nonetheless , this does not mean that tail reduction had no effect on CoM displacement , but that it was not the most important factor . Ideally we would have increased tail mass and reduced pectoral limb mass but , unfortunately , this is not experimentally feasible . We argue that our experimental approach , although not perfect , was effective in displacing the CoM and recreating locomotor patterns expected in non-avian theropods . Thus , we expect that careful phenotypic manipulation of extant birds can open new avenues of experimental investigation into unexplored facets of dinosaur locomotor mechanics and energetics , providing a more nuanced understanding of the relationship between form and function in dinosaur evolution .