Address to the Nation Announcing Decision To Resign the Office of President of the United States August 08 , 1974 Good evening : This is the 37th time I have spoken to you from this office , where so many decisions have been made that shaped the history of this Nation . Each time I have done so to discuss with you some matter that I believe affected the national interest . In all the decisions I have made in my public life , I have always tried to do what was best for the Nation . Throughout the long and difficult period of Watergate , I have felt it was my duty to persevere , to make every possible effort to complete the term of office to which you elected me . In the past few days , however , it has become evident to me that I no longer have a strong enough political base in the Congress to justify continuing that effort . As long as there was such a base , I felt strongly that it was necessary to see the constitutional process through to its conclusion , that to do otherwise would be unfaithful to the spirit of that deliberately difficult process and a dangerously destabilizing precedent for the future . But with the disappearance of that base , I now believe that the constitutional purpose has been served , and there is no longer a need for the process to be prolonged . I would have preferred to carry through to the finish , whatever the personal agony it would have involved , and my family unanimously urged me to do so . But the interests of the Nation must always come before any personal considerations . From the discussions I have had with Congressional and other leaders , I have concluded that because of the Watergate matter , I might not have the support of the Congress that I would consider necessary to back the very difficult decisions and carry out the duties of this office in the way the interests of the Nation will require . I have never been a quitter . To leave office before my term is completed is abhorrent to every instinct in my body . But as President , I must put the interests of America first . America needs a full - time President and a full - time Congress , particularly at this time with problems we face at home and abroad . To continue to fight through the months ahead for my personal vindication would almost totally absorb the time and attention of both the President and the Congress in a period when our entire focus should be on the great issues of peace abroad and prosperity without inflation at home . Therefore , I shall resign the Presidency effective at noon tomorrow . Vice President Ford will be sworn in as President at that hour in this office . As I recall the high hopes for America with which we began this second term , I feel a great sadness that I will not be here in this office working on your behalf to achieve those hopes in the next 2 1/2 years . But in turning over direction of the Government to Vice President Ford , I know , as I told the Nation when I nominated him for that office 10 months ago , that the leadership of America will be in good hands . In passing this office to the Vice President , I also do so with the profound sense of the weight of responsibility that will fall on his shoulders tomorrow and , therefore , of the understanding , the patience , the cooperation he will need from all Americans . As he assumes that responsibility , he will deserve the help and the support of all of us . As we look to the future , the first essential is to begin healing the wounds of this Nation , to put the bitterness and divisions of the recent past behind us and to rediscover those shared ideals that lie at the heart of our strength and unity as a great and as a free people . By taking this action , I hope that I will have hastened the start of that process of healing which is so desperately needed in America . I regret deeply any injuries that may have been done in the course of the events that led to this decision . I would say only that if some of my judgments were wrong -- and some were wrong -- they were made in what I believed at the time to be the best interest of the Nation . To those who have stood with me during these past difficult months -- to my family , my friends , to many others who joined in supporting my cause because they believed it was right -- I will be eternally grateful for your support . And to those who have not felt able to give me your support , let me say I leave with no bitterness toward those who have opposed me , because all of us , in the final analysis , have been concerned with the good of the country , however our judgments might differ . So , let us all now join together in affirming that common commitment and in helping our new President succeed for the benefit of all Americans . I shall leave this office with regret at not completing my term , but with gratitude for the privilege of serving as your President for the past 5 1/2 years . These years have been a momentous time in the history of our Nation and the world . They have been a time of achievement in which we can all be proud , achievements that represent the shared efforts of the Administration , the Congress , and the people . But the challenges ahead are equally great , and they , too , will require the support and the efforts of the Congress and the people working in cooperation with the new Administration . We have ended America 's longest war , but in the work of securing a lasting peace in the world , the goals ahead are even more far - reaching and more difficult . We must complete a structure of peace so that it will be said of this generation , our generation of Americans , by the people of all nations , not only that we ended one war but that we prevented future wars . We have unlocked the doors that for a quarter of a century stood between the United States and the People 's Republic of China . We must now ensure that the one quarter of the world 's people who live in the People 's Republic of China will be and remain not our enemies , but our friends .