Would you say there has to be a negative consequence to the thing you ca n't stop ? No , because think of functional alcoholics , right ? Somebody can manage to be a teacher . Somebody can manage to be a cop . Somebody can manage to be the mayor of Toronto . Right . And somehow the blowback never hits them . Okay . Right , but they are still addicted . Right . Yeah , they 've lost control over use , right ? Right . Even though they 're managing to sort of stickhandle their way through life . Oh , but one of the things I forgot is one of the things is a negative impact on your health as well . Well , you can go for a long , long , say , alcoholism . You can go a decade or more before you actually suffer significant health consequences from heavy , heavy alcohol use . So what I 'd like to find out by the time this episode is over is whether I 'm addicted to sugar or I just really like it . Well , yeah , I guess -- Have you lost control over your consumption of sugar ? I guess I have to define -- Has he ever exhibited any control whatsoever ? Yeah , I guess I have to define what that means . What control means . Sure . Yeah . Do you keep using despite wanting to stop ? Yes . Alright . Then you may have an addiction to sugar . Alright . My suspicion is true ! So I 've got a list of a few specific addictions that we 're probably covering . Well , one of them we probably wo n't , because I think we 're going to have an episode specifically on that . But drug abuse , of course , is a pattern use of a substance drug in which the user consumes the substance in amounts or with methods which are harmful to themselves or others . This adds in the harm aspect of it . Sexual addiction is a conceptual model devised in order to provide a scientific explanation for sexual urges , behaviors or thoughts that appear extreme in frequency or feel out of one 's control in terms of being a literal addiction to sexual activity . There 's some -- This is controversial , right ? Like this one 's a little controversial ? Yeah , it could be just a compulsive thing . And again , it 's probably just getting into what do you call addiction . Right . This is obviously something that you want and it can be causing problems . So I think it gets covered here . Problem gambling , I think we might have a gambling episode , so I 'm not going to touch too much on this . Okay . That 's an urge to continuously gamble despite harmful negative consequences or a desire to stop . It probably depends on what you 're gambling , like if you put , you know , one of your kids up or something like that . That would be a problem . That 's a problem . Yeah , yeah , it 's not just gambling . It 's problem gambling , yeah . And then , of course , video game addiction , a relatively new one , is an excessive or compulsive use of computer games or video games which interferes with a person 's everyday life . Video game addiction may present as compulsive game playing , social isolation , mood swings , diminished imagination and hyper focus on in - game achievements to the exclusion of other life events . What about , like Facebook and other Internet stuff ? There is also Internet addiction , yeah . In May 2013 , video game addiction was added to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in the conditions for further study section as Internet gaming disorder . This looks interesting . So this is -- this is these are those those trial sports for the Olympics that they 're test - driving but are n't mental sports yet . Right . What ? You do n't like sports . No , he does n't . I understand that . This is video game addiction . it 's the -- it 's the ballroom dancing of mental disorders , right . Yeah . So is there anything on that list that you can get addicted to or anything not on that list that you can get addicted to ? A great amount . If you start opening up that definition of addiction to other things . There 's a show called My Strange Addiction . It 's a reality show , and they talk about all sorts of weird things that people are , quote , addicted to . Girls are eating chalk and yeah you know . Yeah , it 's -- but it 's things like one woman is addicted to licking her cat , right ? Right . Which feels to me more like a compulsive disorder rather than an addiction . Is there a difference , Dr. Rob ? Well , these things do shade into one another . If you think about addiction as loss of control of use , we can broadly define that in two ways . So there could be process addictions , which means addiction to a specific behavior such as Internet addiction , pathological gambling , sex addiction . And then there would be the substance use disorders such as substance dependance , where you become -- you 've lost control over use of a particular substance . Now , obsessive compulsive disorder is repetitive behaviors that you feel compelled to perform , even though you know they 're irrational . Like licking a cat . Sure , like licking a cat or like washing your hands . Right . So a compulsive hand - washer who 's phobic of germs . Cause cats ca n't lick themselves . Cats most certainly can lick themselves . So then the question is , is this person addicted to hand washing ? Have they lost control of use over hand washing in the way that an alcoholic has lost control over consumption of alcohol ? And I mean , there are similarities in terms of the surface behavior , but in terms of the psychology and the neurobiology , there seem to be pretty specific differences . So , for instance , in obsessive compulsive disorder , one of the treatments that 's quite effective would be high dose SSRIs or serotonin reuptake inhibitors , whereas those have no effect at all in classical addiction . Okay . Such as , say , alcoholism , sex addiction and so forth . Right , so we are gon na -- So we 're talking about medical quantification . Yeah , yeah , and you know , neuroimaging looks different in people with OCD versus people with addiction . So they shade together , but there do seem to be differences .