Good morning to all . In the case of Atlantic Lottery Corporation , Inc. et al. against Douglas Babstock et al. , for the appellant , Atlantic Lottery Corporation , Inc. : Julie Rosenthal , Mike Eizenga , Sarah Stoddar- Stoddart , I 'm sorry , Jonathan Bell . [ … ] For the intervener , British Columbia Lottery Corporation : K. Michael Stevens , Shannon Ramsey , and Aubin Calvert . For the respondents , Douglas Babstock et al. : Kirk M. Bart and Celeste Pollock . Miss Rosenthal ? Thank you . To give you a sense of how we 're dividing our argument , I will be addressing the issue of waiver of tort , the new cause of action , we say , of disgorgement for wrongdoing . My colleague , Mr. Eizenga , will address the Criminal Code issue and unjust enrichment . And Mr. Kelly , who acts for the remaining appellants , will address the requirement that any order of disgorgement of profits must be limited to those profits that result from , or that are causally linked to the breach of contract or other wrongdoing at issue . And we have agreed to divide our time 20 20 20 . And I wish to start by clarifying a point of terminology , and it relates to the use of the term waiver of tort . And the reason I wish to clarify it is that you will hear the respondent 's counsel say waiver of tort is nothing new , that it 's an old cause of action . And therefore what the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal did is -- is nothing out of the ordinary . But what I say that argument obscures is the fact that waiver of tort can be used in two quite different ways , and t- to refer to two different concepts . The first is , it may refer to an old , old common law concept , a construct that would allow a plaintiff to obtain a gains based remedy but for a completed cause of action , and traditionally it was uh applied with respect to two causes of action , in particular proprietary causes of action and trespass or conversion . But what I wish to emphasize is that that old construct was applied where the plaintiff could prove a completed cause of action . It remains an open question whether that construct should be expanded to allow for gains - based remedies for other types of claims . This is this is your case to plead , but you have dived headlong into the weeds . You have not told us what our task is here today . Now that 's up to you , whether you want to frame it in a more general sense or not . But it would assist me , at least in terms of what it is , in a general sense , we 're being asked to decide today . So what I am asking you to decide today is the second -- relates to the second , and what I say is the new and much narrower meaning of of waiver of tort , which is what the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal did , which is to say there exists a cause of action that comprises a breach of a duty of care without causally linked loss or injury . And that , I say , is very new . It was first suggested by the Ontario courts back in Sirhan , and it 's the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal that , for the first time has affirmatively recognized that as a cause of action . And what I would ask this court to do is to clarify , to correct that error and say that there is no such cause of action . I take it this is a motion to strike . That 's what I mean by general propositions . It arose at first instance on a motion to strike . Correct . And so I have -- there are really two main reasons I say why the proposed cause of action should be definitively ruled by this court , not to be sound at law . And the first is really a doctrinal point , which is that it is fundamentally at odds with the law of negligence . And the second is that even on its own terms , it lacks internal coherence and is impermissibly vague , I say , and unworkable . And for those reasons , the commentators have opposed it . It would put -- no other common law jurisdiction has even considered such a cause of action . And fundamentally , I say it does n't answer any unmet societal need . So turning to the first point , which is the the incompatibility with the law of negligence , that law , of course , has been settled for close to 100 years , and it could n't be clearer that breach of a duty of care without loss or injury does not give rise to a cause of action . That 's set out in Moran and Pyle . If needed , that 's in my condensed book at Tab 3 . And what I wish to emphasize is that this court has made it abundantly clear that careless behavior alone is not wrongful . It is only the loss or injury that makes it wrongful . And if I could direct the court 's attention , please , to Tab 4 of our condensed book . This is the decision in Ratych and Bloomer . Reading from line E a quote from Lord Diplock and Browning and War Office : " A person who acts without reasonable care does no wrong in law . He commits no tort . He only does wrong , he only commits a tort , if his lack of care causes damage to the plaintiff . " And the same point is made in Clements and Clements over at Tab 8 , please . At paragraph 16 . " A defendant in an action in negligence is not a wrongdoer at large . He is a wrongdoer only in respect of the damage which he actually causes to the plaintiff . " And this point is particularly important because the proposed cause of action is said to be disgorgement for wrongdoing . And I say the court below proceeded on the basis that carelessness , failure to meet the standard of care , was wrongdoing . But that is is exactly the opposite to what the law of negligence has told us .