The Cost to Be Wise Veronique stayed with me that night , lying next to me in my blankets and furs . She did n't sleep , I do n't think . I was listening to her breath . I felt as if I should help her sleep . I lay there and tried to think if I should put my arm around her , but I did n't know . Maybe she did n't want to be touched . And she had been a stupid girl , anyway . She lay tense in the dark . " Are you going to be a teacher ? " I asked . She laughed . " If I get out of here . " I waited for her to say more , but she did n't . " Get out of here " meant to make someone leave . Maybe she meant if she made herself . " You come here from Earth ? " I asked . To get her to talk , although I was tired of lingua and I did n't really want to think about anything . " My family came here from Earth , " she said . " Why ? " " My father , he 's an anthropologist , " she said . " Do you know anthropologist ? " " No , " I said . " He is a person who studies the way people live . And he is a teacher . " All the offworlders I had ever met were teachers . I wondered who did all the work on Earth . " Because Earth had lost touch with your world , the people here are very interesting to my father , " she said . Her voice was listless in the dark and she was even harder to understand when I could n't see her properly . I did n't understand so I did n't say anything . I was sorry I 'd started her talking . " History , do you know the word ' history ' ? " she asked . Of course I knew the word " history . " " I study history in school , " I said . Anneal and Kumar taught it . " Do you know the history of this world ? " It took my tired head a long time to sort that out . " Yes , " I said . " We are a colony . People from Earth come here to live . Then there is a big problem on Earth , and the people of Earth forget we are here . We forget we are from Earth . Then Earth finds us again . " " Some people have stories about coming from the Earth , " Veronique said . " My father is collecting those stories from different peoples . I 'm a graduate student . " The clans did n't have any stories about coming from Earth . We said the first people came out of the sun . This somehow seemed embarrassing . I did n't understand what kind of student she was . " Are you here for stories ? " I asked . " No , " she said . " Ian is old friends with your teacher , from back when they were both with the survey . We just came to visit . " I did n't understand what she 'd said except that they were visiting . We were quiet after that . I pretended to sleep . Sometimes there was gunfire outside and we jumped , even Mam on the bed . Everyone but Bet . Once Bet was asleep it was impossible to wake her up . I fell asleep thinking about how I wished that the Scathalos outrunners were gone . I dreamed that I was at the offworlder 's home , where it was summer but no one was taking care of the stabros , and they were all glad , and so I was a hero - and I was startled awake by gunfire . Just more drinking and shooting . I wished my da would come home . It did n't seem fair that we should lie here and be afraid while the men were getting drunk and singing .