I am proud to come here to Philadelphia and join my fellow Democrats . In 1960 , the Democrats of this city produced a margin in the presidential race that was in this city three times as large as it was in the whole United States . So I am proud to be back here again , and I am very happy to be introduced by your distinguished chairman , Bill Green . When he became chairman of this city committee , there were 300,000 more Republicans registered in the city of Philadelphia than Democrats , and it is a source of satisfaction to me that tonight there are 260,000 more Democrats registered . I can understand why some Republicans may not like it , but , as a Democrat , as one who believes in the Democratic Party , as one who believes that the Democratic Party has meant progress for this city , this State , and this country , I am proud to be here in Philadelphia . And I am proud to be here with your mayor . I do not come from Philadelphia , and I would not interfere , but I am hopeful and confident that when we come to the Army - Navy game in a month from now , we will be greeted by the new mayor of Philadelphia , Mayor Tale . I have n't given a political speech for about 3 years , so I am a little out of practice , but I am gradually getting back into it . And I am glad to be here with a mayor who follows two other distinguished mayors of this city , who carries on their tradition - Joe Clark , your United States Senator who was a great mayor of Philadelphia , and Dick Dilworth , who followed him , who was a great mayor of Philadelphia . That is the tradition of honest , progressive democratic government that Mayor Tate carries on . And I am glad to be here with Judge Hoffman and Senator Mahady who also run this fall in the State of Pennsylvania . Everyone expects things of Presidents , but I am not sure that they realize how much depends upon the Members of the House and the Members of the Senate who must make the final judgment on what kind of laws a President must execute . The Congressmen from this city as well as the Senator from this State - Bill Barrett and Bob Nix and Herman Toll and Jim Byrne and Chairman Green - have , with Joe Clark supported legislation month in and month out that benefited this city and this State and this country and , what is more , has helped make the United States meet its responsibilities around the globe . So what you do in this city counts all across the country , and Philadelphia has sent the right men to the House of Representatives and to the Senate of the United States . And I am also proud to be here with your former Governor who is now working for us in Washington as our adviser on fair housing , Governor Dave Lawrence , of the State of Pennsylvania . Three years ago tomorrow night , I spoke in this hall in the closing days of the 1960 campaign , and I asked the people of this city to give us their support to help this country move again . The people of Philadelphia gave that support , and the support I received from this city and this State was , as it was in the 1960 convention , the key to our victory across the country . I am back in Philadelphia to express my thanks for that support and also to express appreciation for the help we received from those Democrats in this city and State , and to report to you on the progress that this country has made on the goals that were outlined 3 years ago . I did not promise on that October night that life would be easy in the Great Republic . I did not say we would not have new pressures and new problems . Nor did I speak of swift solutions in 100 days in office . I talked instead about the kind of America that I wanted for my family and for your family and all those who are citizens of this country in these difficult and changing years , the kind of America in which I believed , not as a Democrat or as a candidate , but as a citizen . Today , in many ways , the world looks very different , and the revolutionary change of pace is even more rapid than it has been in the past . But there has been no change in my concept of the goals which this country must strive for if it is to meet its responsibilities to its people and those who depend upon it . I still believe in the kind of America which I described in this hall 3 years ago , and I am still determined that this Nation shall continue to strive to meet those goals . And I am gratified to be able to report some progress in the last 33 1/2 months . I said , first of all , that I believed in America where work was available to those who were willing and able to work , where the waste of idle men and machines could be avoided , and where greater economic growth could provide the new jobs and the new markets that our growing Nation needed . That goal has not been fully achieved . There are still too many men and women , particularly young men and women , unable to find work . And our high wartime tax rates still prevent our economy from growing as fully and as freely as it must . But one fact is that 2 1/2 million people more are working in the United States than were working 33 months ago . The rate of unemployment and idle capacity has been cut , and our economy of the United States will shortly pass the $ 600 billion mark , for a record rise -- for a record rise in 3 years of $ 100 billion -- the largest peacetime rise in the history of the United States . And if we can obtain the early passage of an effective tax cut which the House of Representatives has already passed -- and which the Ways and Means Committee , on which Bill Green serves , wrote -- we shall be sailing this country next year on the longest and strongest peacetime expansion of our economy in the history of the United States . It is well within our reach .