Wikinews interviews Mario J. Lucero and Isabel Ruiz of Heaven Sent Gaming General questions What is Heaven Sent Gaming ? Heaven Sent Gaming is basically me and Isabel , I 'm Mario J. Lucero . And , I 'm Isabel Ruiz . And , together we formed this thing , it 's sort of like an entertainment team . We started it basically , because I wanted to - I wanted to work with Isabel on a lot of projects that we had going on together . We were coming with comics , like , left and right , we were coming up with things like Karis , in high school she came up with that one , I came up with an individual story called Thad 's World Destruction and , she wanted to illustrate it , and so , that 's the way we ended up doing it . Yep , we like to just make our own original content , and , yep , that 's what we wanted to do . How did you two meet ? We met back in high school . In this private , tiny - tiny private school of 50 students . But , before hand in middle school , I kept on hearing about this guy named Mario , and he kept on hearing about me , this girl named Isabel . And , everyone , all of our friends and all of our acquaintances would say , " Hey , you 'd get along with him really well . " So before hand I kinda knew about him , but I never met him . And one of our friends , our common friends , he introduced us during study hall , and we just kind of hit it off from there . It 's true . Who else is involved in this project ? Currently , we 're in talks with people . There 's Jeff [ Drake ] , who is behind the camera . Right now , yeah , he 's helping us right now . We 're talking about doing some individual web series , video series . Josh Kindig , he 's coming on board , he has some ideas for that too , he wants to take over " aywv " and do more gaming news . There 's of course Jason , who is our editor and he 's the one who writes dD . Digital Domain What is your purpose behind this venture ? Well , back in college , back in Collins College , Isabel and I , we had met like she said at Sandia View Academy , and we went off to college together in Arizona ; and ... ( how do I best explain this ? ) Basically , she came up with a few class projects , and I came up with a few class projects ; we started working with a few of our friends , and colleagues and whatnot . Those included Drew Cass , Devin Thurlow , people like that . She had several ideas , and she used to draw a lot in the sketchbook , she used to have this thick sketchbook that she used to carry around with her everywhere , where she 'd draw these different characters and whatnot ; and she was always really shy to show that off to people , and I wanted to help her show that stuff , and I wanted to bring it out to the world . I was a writer , and she always liked my writings , so I was like , let 's just get both of our things together , and let 's get this done . And for me , what I want the purpose to be , is to inspire people . To bring a little more light to the world is what I want , out of all of this . And what was the verse that we have ? First Corinthians 9 : 25 ? Yes . Yeah , exactly . We just want to be able to bring , like she said , bring light into the entertainment and into the media industry , specifically is what we do . Yeah .