When Tyler was very young , his grandmother was his favorite person in the world because , unlike his parents , who believed that children should always be told the truth as adults understood it , she would fill in the gaps in his knowledge — Santa Claus , the Easter Bunny , God . His parents were always too busy and often a little too serious , but his grandmother had a sense of peace about her , a lightness that lifted his spirit . A few times , when Tyler ’s parents were away , she took him with her to church . He remembered liking the singing and the colorful windows , and how safe he felt there , in that large , empty space , sitting on a hard bench next to her warmth . When she died , grief overwhelmed Tyler . But like most adults , when he grew older he could only recall the intensity of that love in childhood in an abstract way . He made the common error of identifying maturity with worth , and assumed that the love he had for her as a young child must have been lacking in strength and depth . For many years after her death , however , Tyler was tortured by the memory of a certain visit from her . He was five or so , and they were playing some board game at the kitchen table . As he swung his legs in his excitement , he kicked her repeatedly in the shins . She asked him to stop , and he refused , giggling . When she finally frowned at him and threatened to stop playing if he did n’t stop he told her to go to Hell . In Tyler ’s mind he could see her face grow taut , lose color , and then , for the only time he could remember , she began to cry . He also remembered his own utter confusion . His parents did not have much use for religion and so for him Hell was a word without much mystery or power . At that time he knew only vaguely that Hell was a place you did not want to go , like the dark basement or the even darker attic . He remembered feeling resentful that she was crying and he did not even understand why . Tyler felt the guilt of this memory even in his teenage years . For him it summed up all his insecurities and fears about his own cruelty , ignorance , and the possibility that he was , in reality , not a good person . The fact that he had caused someone who loved him such pain with so little effort and understanding troubled him deeply . One day Tyler looked through an old family photo album , and in it was a picture of the kitchen in the house they used to live in . He was surprised to discover that the small kitchen contained a central island , and had no space for the table in his memory at all . With the discovery of that single error in his memory came a cascade of other revelations . Now he remembered that they always ate in the dining room , and when they did play board games , it was always on the coffee table in the living room . The memory that had caused him such pain over the years could not possibly have occurred . Somehow , he must have manufactured the whole scene in his imagination . It was not very hard to explain what really happened , he thought . The death of his grandmother had probably caused in him feelings of abandonment and guilt . In his confusion he had taken elements from storybooks and imagined out of nothing this memory to punish himself . This was the sort of fantasy that could have occurred to any young child who lost an important relative . With that realization , the image of his grandmother crying faded in his memory and became less and less believable . Tyler thought he was very lucky to have discovered the single error in his false memory , which enabled him to reason his way into distinguishing between reality and fantasy . He felt that it was a coming - of - age moment . Nonetheless , he admitted to himself that he was a little sad also at the discovery . For however imaginary that memory was , it was also a part of his love for his grandmother . When that memory lost its compelling aura of truth , it was like another part of her died with it . He had no name for the emptiness that remained .