Early life Born in Tianjin with ancestry in Changzhou , Jiangsu province , Chao went to the United States with a Boxer Indemnity Scholarship in 1910 to study mathematics and physics at Cornell University , where he was a classmate and lifelong friend of Hu Shih , the leader of the New Culture Movement . He then became interested in philosophy , and earned a Ph.D. in philosophy from Harvard University in 1918 with a dissertation entitled " Continuity : Study in Methodology " . Already in college his interests had turned to music and languages . He spoke German and French fluently and some Japanese , and he had a reading knowledge of ancient Greek and Latin . He served as Bertrand Russell 's interpreter when Russell visited China in 1920 . In his My Linguistic Autobiography , he wrote of his ability to pick up a Chinese dialect quickly , without much effort . Chao possessed a natural gift for hearing fine distinctions in pronunciation that was said to be " legendary for its acuity " , enabling him to record the sounds of various dialects with a high degree of accuracy . Career development and later life He returned to China in 1920 , marrying the physician Yang Buwei there that year . The ceremony was simple , rather than the noisy traditional wedding , attended only by Hu Shih and one other friend . Hu 's account of it in the newspapers made the couple a model of modern marriage for China 's New Culture generation . Chao taught mathematics at Tsinghua University and , one year later , returned to the United States to teach at Harvard . He again returned to China in 1925 , teaching at Tsinghua , and beginning a survey of the Wu dialects in 1926 . He began to conduct linguistic fieldwork throughout China for the Institute of History and Philology of Academia Sinica from 1928 onwards . During this period of time , he collaborated with Luo Changpei and Li Fang - Kuei , the other two leading Chinese linguists of his generation , to edit and render into Chinese Bernhard Karlgren 's monumental Etudes sur la Phonologie Chinoise ( published in 1940 ) . He left for the US in 1938 , and resided there afterwards . In 1945 , he served as president of the Linguistic Society of America , and a special issue of the society 's journal Language was dedicated to him in 1966 . He became an American citizen in 1954 . In the 1950s he was among the first members of the Society for General Systems Research . From 1947 to 1960 , he taught at the University of California at Berkeley , where in 1952 , he became Agassiz Professor of Oriental Languages . Both Chao and Yang were known for their good senses of humor , he particularly for his love of subtle jokes and language puns : they published a family history entitled , Life with Chaos : the autobiography of a Chinese family . Late in his life , he was invited by Deng Xiaoping to return to China in 1981 . Previously at the invitation of Premier Zhou En - Lai , Chao and his wife returned to China in 1973 for the first time since the 1940s . He visited China again between May and June in 1981 after his wife died in March the same year . He died in Cambridge , Massachusetts . His first daughter Rulan Chao Pian ( 1922 - 2013 ) was Professor of East Asian Studies and Music at Harvard . His third daughter Lensey , born in 1929 , is a children 's book author and mathematician .