Remarks by President Biden and Vice President Harris in a Briefing to Preview the First Images from the James Webb Space Telescope JULY 11 , 2022 • STATEMENTS AND RELEASES South Court Auditorium Eisenhower Executive Office Building 6:13 P.M. EDT THE VICE PRESIDENT : Thank you . Thank you . Well , good evening , everyone . I am very honored to be with you all . President Joe Biden and I talk often about our mutual passion for everything you all do . This is a very exciting moment to join you for the unveiling of the work that you have been laboring on for decades . So , to our President , Joe Biden , thank you for your leadership around all of these issues . Our NASA Administrator , Bill Nelson , and the Office of Science and Technology Policy Acting Director , Dr. Alondra Nelson . Thank you also to our colleagues from across the White House and NASA and everyone else joining us from home . So , yes , as Chair of the National Space Council , I know that today represents an exciting new chapter in the exploration of our universe . From the beginning of history , humans have looked up to the night sky with wonder . And thanks to dedicated people who have been working for decades in engineering and on scientific marvels , we can look to the sky with new understanding . When NASA launched the Hubble Space Telescope in 1990 , we were able to see the stars unobstructed by the Earth ’s atmosphere and understand the universe in ways we could have never imagined even a few decades earlier . And now we enter a new phase of scientific discovery . Building on the legacy of Hubble , the James Webb Space Telescope allows us to see deeper into space than ever before and in stunning clarity . It will enhance what we know about the origins of our universe , our solar system , and possibly life itself . This was made possible by partnership among nations . And it is an example of how the scientific endeavor can build upon the international rules and norms that govern our cooperation in space . This telescope is one of humanity ’s great engineering achievements . And the images we will see today are a testament to the amazing work done by the thousands of workers across our nation who dedicated years to this project . They embarked on this complex endeavor for the benefit of humankind , and in the process , accelerated American innovation , strengthened partnerships with our allies , and will undoubtedly inspire generations to look to the heavens with excitement and ambition . With that , it is my great honor to introduce a leader who has always believed in the power of American innovation and international cooperation to achieve the remarkable : our President , the President of the United States , Joe Biden . THE PRESIDENT : Well , it ’s great to be with you all . And I was going to say “ good afternoon , ” but we ’re starting this meeting late because I was engaged in preparing for a trip to the Middle East . But today is a historic day . And thank you , Vice President Harris , Chair of the National Space Council . And thank you , my dear friend and our outstanding NASA Administrator and the guy — the only guy here who ’s been in space , Bill Nelson . Bill , you ’re a good friend . Thank you very much for what you ’re doing . And — and , Dr. Nelson , you ’re doing a great job leading this Office of Science and Technology Policy . It really is a matter — it really is amazing . Six and a half months ago , a rocket launched from Earth carrying the world ’s newest , most powerful deep - space telescope on a journey one million miles into the cosmos — first of all , that blows my mind : a million miles into the cosmos — along the way unfolding itself , deploying a mirror 21 feet wide , a sunshield the size of a tennis court , and 250,000 tiny shutters , each one smaller than a grain of sand . Put together , it ’s a new window into the history of our universe . And today , we ’re going to get a glimpse of the first light to shine through that window — light from other worlds , orbiting stars far beyond our own . It ’s astounding to me when I read this and saw the — I mean , it really is . It ’s — it ’s — anyway , I do n’t want to — I ’ll see what they think when we see this . But light where stars were born and from where they die . Light from the oldest galaxies . The oldest documented light in the history of the universe from over 13 billion — let me say that again : 13 billion years ago . It ’s hard to even fathom . Tomorrow , when this image is shared with the world , it will be a historic moment for science and technology , for astronomy and space exploration , for America and all of humanity . You know , as an international collaboration , this telescope embodies how America leads the world not by the example of our power , but the power of our example . A partnership with others , it symbolizes the relentless spirit of American ingenuity . And it shows what we can achieve , what more we can discover , not just about distant places , but about our very own planet and climate , like NASA ’s Earth System Observatory that we launched last year . That ’s why the federal government must invest — must invest in science and technology , more than we have in the past . These images are going to remind the world that America can do big things . And they ’ll remind the American people , especially our children , that there ’s nothing beyond our capacity — nothing beyond our capacity . We can see possibilities no one has ever seen before . We can go places no one has ever gone before . You know , you ’ve — you ’ve heard me say it over and over again . America is defined by one single word : possibilities . Possibilities . I want to thank the team at NASA for once again showing that that ’s who we are — that ’s who we are as a nation : a nation of possibilities . And now let ’s take a look at the very first image from this miraculous telescope .