The Chemical Wedding by Christian Rosencreutz A ROMANCE IN EIGHT DAYS by JOHANN VALENTIN ANDREAE in a new version by JOHN CROWLEY illustrated by THEO FADEL SMALL BEER PRESS EASTHAMPTON , MASS . Introduction I The Chemical Wedding by Christian Rosencreutz is the way I ’ve decided to present the title of this book . Most versions in English are called The Chemical Wedding of Christian Rosencreutz , which suggests ( and most people who ’ve heard of it suppose ) that the wedding is Christian ’s . It ’s not ; Christian Rosencreutz is the purported author of a book called The Chemical Wedding . The actual author is Johann Valentin Andreae , whose name did n’t appear on the book originally , thus ensuring the confusion . I ’ll call it herein ( as everyone mostly does ) simply The Chemical Wedding . Though its original readers would have had a certain amount of context for the truly bizarre and surprising events it tells of , it ’s possible that The Chemical Wedding is now more enjoyable without knowing that context , and experiencing the book unmediated . You might therefore wish to start right in on the first page of text that follows and only then return to this introduction . Consider a similar case : a little book published in 1934 by the Surrealist artist Max Ernst called Une Semaine de Bonté . It was made entirely of collaged illustrations cut out of old books The First Day It was just before Easter Sunday , 1 and I was sitting at my table . I ’d said my prayers , talking a long time as usual with my Maker and thinking about some of the great mysteries the Father of Lights had revealed to me . Now I was ready to make and to bake – only in my heart , actually – a small , perfect unleavened wafer to eat with my beloved Paschal Lamb . All of a sudden a terrible wind blew up , so strong that I thought the hill my little house was built on would be blown apart – but I ’d seen the Devil do things as bad as this before ( the Devil had often tried to harm me ) , so I took heart and went on meditating . Till I felt somebody touch me on the back . This frightened me so that I did n’t dare turn . I tried to stay as brave and calm as a human being could under the circumstances . I felt my coat tugged at , and tugged again , and at last I looked around . A woman stood there , so bright and beautiful , in a sky - colored robe – a heavens covered with 1 Christian ’s story begins just before Easter , like Dante ’s Divine Comedy . It can be seen as an allegory of Christ ’s death and resurrection , though this idea produces some puzzles . The birds sang so beautifully , the young deer skipped so happily , that it gladdened my old heart , and I could n't help singing too ... THE FOURTH DAY I was awake and lying in bed next morning , looking idly at the wonderful images and inscriptions all around my room , when suddenly I heard the sound of trumpets , as if a procession were already underway . My page jumped out of bed as if crazed , looking more dead than alive , and you can imagine how I felt when he cried , “ They 're already being presented to the king ! " I could only groan in frustration and curse my lazy bones . I got dressed , but my page was quicker than I was and ran out of the chamber to see what was what . He soon came back and gave me the good news that I actually had n’t overslept ; all I ’d done was miss breakfast : they had n’t wanted to wake an old man who needed his rest . But now I had to get ready to go with him to the lion fountain , where most of the others were gathered . Such a relief ! My spirits recovered , and as soon as I had got into my habit , I followed him to the garden I have already told about . I found that the lion , in place of his sword , now held a rather large plaque . Examining this , I could tell that it had been taken from those ancient monuments I ’d seen and put here for some special reason . The inscription on it was fading away , so I should set it down here as it was then , and ask my readers to ponder it : Prince Hermes : Now after humankind has suffered so much harm here I flow having by god ’s counsel and with the help of art become a healing balm . Drink from me if you can ; wash , if you like ; trouble my waters if you dare . Drink , Brethren ! Drink and live !