4. Discussion . We hypothesized that the children , who were over the age of six at the time of collection , would have adult - like SI interpretations . We expected that the use of a training session and then the format of the question would guide participants towards evaluating pragmatic felicity over providing truth value judgments , and would result in adult - like interpretations . Further , we posited that if our initial hypothesis was not supported , and in fact there was some non - adult - like performance , that there would be significant variability among the conditions , with cardinal numbers having the highest performance and some the weakest . On the surface , it does seem as if there is variability and perhaps a larger sample size or more items could lead to a significant finding ( see limitations below ) , but at least for this study , the only significant finding was the difference between cardinal numbers and some . Significant differences were not observed between all and cardinal numbers or all and some . 4.1. LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS . This study is limited in its power and generalizability . It serves as a reminder of the work that needs to be completed for the cross-linguistic study of SI in particular and acquisition more generally . Bantu languages are not included in studies of acquisition often enough despite the numerous languages in this linguistic grouping and the millions of people using them . Future studies need to include more participants and more items to increase power . Future studies should also include a larger age range of children to document the age at which adult - like performance emerges . Related cross-cultural studies have resulted in insufficient statistical power , but interesting trends ( e.g. , Nedwick , 2014 ) . Follow - up studies with increased stimuli and participants are needed . In a future study , it is also important to consider if additional training in the difference between reporting on felicity and truth value judgments would impact results , or if more naturalistic experimental conditions ( e.g. , demonstrating actions using real objects instead of two - dimensional depictions ) would be beneficial . Previous studies in this region of sub-Saharan Africa have found evidence of cultural differences in testing behavior ( Hein , Reich , Marks , Thuma , & Grigorenko , 2016 ) . The current study is too small to make strong conclusions with regard to cultural differences and experimental methods ; however , in the study by Hein and colleagues it was found that children responded more or less frequently based on factors such as stimuli type . In the current study , the responses from two children were not included because they responded the same way to every item through the training and all test items . More specifically , they answered “ yes ” that the puppet described the pictures well . It is possible that these two children understood the task and really did believe that the puppet did not produce any poor descriptions , and in this regard , are not yet adult - like in their SI interpretations . This is unlikely as they said that even the first training item was said well . It is also possible though that these two children were attempting to please the data collectors , or be polite , and that “ yes ” was in some ways a default answer to be provided when having to respond verbally in a test context . Additional training with the methodology could improve outcomes . The puppets used were picked specifically for this task with careful attention to their appearance . Upon arrival at the school , however , it became clear that the children were not accustomed to playing with puppets and that the data collection would be a novel experience for them . Further exploration with greater cardinal number ranges could also prove interesting . Numbers through five in the participating communities are most often expressed with native Chitonga words while numbers greater than five are typically indicated using English borrowings . The cardinal numbers included in this study were only one through five in order to avoid additional item variability , but larger numbers should be included in future research . 5. Conclusion . Albeit limited , these results provide valuable insight into SI interpretation by Chitonga - speaking children and demonstrate that pragmatic inference acquisition likely follows the order identified in previous research , but appears to be completed at a later age in this language . This interesting combination of findings – expected hierarchy of difficulty , but differing age of acquisition – is an important addition to our growing cross-linguistic knowledge of SI and could be the result of language - specific differences in the use of SI lexical items or methodological differences .