Good morning everybody , welcome back to another vlog . Today is Wednesday . I started out this vlog outside because I really wanted to sit outside in this like beautiful weather and talk to you while I was eating my snack , and like , I just finished filming a main channel video out there , but then my neighbor came outside and like , things got kind of awkward . I just feel awkward being like " what 's up guys , " like , I do n't know when my neighbors are out in their backyard . So I 'm just gon na let them have their peace and quiet , but I just finished my snack . I have a lot to do today . But like I said . Oh yes , also hi , pimple patches galore , so many of them . Are these as distracting to you as they are for me ? Sorry , hi , it 's me now . My face is breaking out so badly . I mentioned it in the last vlog . I think it 's hormonal . I do n't know , like I washed my makeup brushes . I changed my pillowcases once to twice a week . I am like diligent , like vigilant even about my skincare routine . So I do n't really know what 's going on . I think it 's hormonal , but anyways , this is just real life and I 've really been struggling with my appearance lately . It 's been a really sore spot for me . I — we 're just jumping right into it , are n't we ? I 'm just being honest , like , I am not in a good place with the way I look . And I also think I put way too much emphasis on what I look like , and the fact that I 'm putting this on the internet and that I , like , get like this for the internet , is huge for me , it 's always been huge for me , but also it 's really hard when I 'm editing . I have a really hard time , like just grappling with my appearance at times , and that 's a really toxic thing for your mental health . And so I 'm trying to break out of that , and I do n't know , maybe some of you are also dealing with the same thing and are struggling with , I do n't know , I just feel ugly . I feel ugly all the time . And I know that 's not the case and ugly is such a subjective word . And also I feel like it 's a word meant to like , oppress people , particularly women , but I 've just been having a hard time with the way I look . Like my face and my hair , my features , the amount of body hair I have in random places because of like my hormones , my weight especially . So it 's just , it 's been rough . And I think I 'm zooming out right now in my head and realizing that it 's been two , almost two years of this shit , and that I obviously need to be more gentle with myself and I think I 'm in the process of doing that , and this week , particularly I 've been moving my body a little bit more and it 's been feeling really good . And also , I 'm very proud to say that I have actually gone back to therapy , which is something that I have n't done since — I mean the last time I was in therapy , almost I was like 20 . I 'm 33 . Your girl 's got trauma like , it 's way past due . I think in the past I have really put off therapy because I was n't ready to like open old wounds . And it takes a lot sometimes when you 're in therapy , like it takes a toll on you mentally . And so , I knew that things were gon na have to get unearthed and things were definitely gon na have to get worse before they got better . And I 've only just started , but I 'm already feeling really good in that I 'm taking this step towards bettering myself and it makes me really happy . And you know , my therapist , like the very first thing she said was , you know , you doing this takes a lot of courage . It 's like a lot of bravery involved to do something like this and to kind of want to better yourself and to take these steps for you and your mental health . And I was just like , wow , thanks . So I did bring that up , the whole thing I was talking about before in therapy , where I have a really hard time with my appearance . In fact , it becomes like an obsession and I obsess over little , every angle and thing . And it probably does n't seem that way , by the way I feel myself , but it 's always just something that 's in here , do you know what I mean ? Conversations for first thing in the morning what the heck , it 's not even 11:00 a.m. , but hi , just coming right out of the gate , just with what 's fresh on my mind . I know you all appreciate when I have these talks and you know , just kind of like get real with you . And I mean , does n't get much realer than this . So anyways , today I have quite a bit of filming to do . I just filmed my like portion of a main channel video that was outside , that was really fun . I think maybe in this video , this vlog , I 'm just in the mood to talk , you know , I do n't really have much to show . I 'm not really doing anything this week other than like hunkering down and doing as much work as possible . I do n't think , maybe in the next vlog I might do some fall things , excuse me . I 'm really just kind of preparing to go out of town next week and I have like a lot of deadlines and stuff before then . So I do n't , I kinda just wan na chat . But first -- Okay , I 'm gon na try not -- I 'm trying . I 'm trying . I 'm just being honest , I was just about to say we need to do something about this . I still feel that way , but I 'm working on it . Let 's reconvene after I 've had a shower .