2. New Institutional Economics : Theoretical Foundations and Application to the Argentine Case 2.1. New Institutional Economics , Property Rights , and Credibility of the State ’s Commitment Throughout the second half of the 20th century , we have witnessed the return of institutions to economic analysis . The awarding of the Nobel Prize in Economics to its main representatives ( Douglass North , Ronald Coase , Oliver Williamson , and Elinor Ostrom ) has contributed to its greater recognition . The two main notions of this economic approach are the concepts of transaction costs and institutions , analyzed by Coase and North , respectively . Coase [ 13 , 14 ] argues that economic transactions involve costs , and where these costs outweigh the gains , the exchange will not take place . For its part , North defined the institutions as the “ rules of the game ” : they determine the structure of the economy , establish incentives for economic behavior , and affect social interaction [ 12 ] . Thus , institutions also determine the level of uncertainty to which individuals are subject , stimulating or discouraging transactions . A viable economy requires an institutional structure that reduces existing uncertainty and guarantees property rights . In other words , it is critical that economic agents believe that their property rights will not be taken away by other public or private actors [ 15 ] . Achieving these objectives requires the creation of inclusive institutions , which guarantee the right to private property , incorporate an impartial legal system , and promote a society based on equality of conditions [ 16 ] . Of course , the state takes a lead role in promoting this type of institution . The state must protect property rights , provide public services , and ensure a sound judiciary . It is responsible also for imposing order and promoting a climate of cooperation among agents , penalizing all violators of contracts [ 17 ] . The path to a prosperous society is not an easy one . It is society that establishes , through political processes , the type of economic institutions that are adopted . If there are disagreements about the policies to be implemented , then the group that wins the political game will make the final decision . On the one hand , a society that adopts policies promoting inclusive political institutions will develop pluralist and centralized institutions . Inclusive institutions guarantee the right to private property , to an impartial legal system and promote a society based on equal conditions . These institutions benefit not only the elites , but society as a whole . The consequences of implementing inclusive institutions are reflected in increased activity , productivity , and economic growth . On the other hand , if extractive political institutions are implemented , then power will be consolidated within a small number of groups . In governments with extractive policies , the group in power usually extracts resources from the rest of the population for its own enrichment and well - being . Another feature of this type of government is that powerful interest groups oppose increased pluralism because it typically results in the loss of their privileges . Those in power have little interest in their power devolving to a greater number of agents , as would occur under political institutions that were more pluralistic [ 16 ] . It follows that the role of the state is essential . The institutional structure of a state and its constitution are responsible for restricting predatory action — even by the state itself — and for creating rules that benefit the community [ 18 ] . Moreover , compliance mechanisms must reflect ex ante and ex post standards [ 12 ] . But what happens when property rights are not respected ? What if it is the state itself that exhibits predatory behavior ? All these questions have a place in this case analysis . The expropriation of YPF is a case in which the Argentine State presents predatory behavior , encouraged by an extractive institutional framework . If the decisions taken by the state are not based on the general interest and , in their execution , do not respect property rights , the number of transactions will be reduced , which will result in unfavorable economic performance . In a scenario with insecure property rights , asymmetric information , and a judicial system that acts as a lax enforcement mechanism , as discussed in the following sections , the FDI is difficult to attract . 2.2. Institutional Structure of the Argentine State In order to understand policymaking and its effects , one must have adequate knowledge of the focal country ’s institutional framework . Most of Argentina ’s governments have been of the predatory type . The country ’s unequal economic growth originated in the colonial era and reflects how the Spanish metropolis influenced the establishment of extractive institutions [ 7 ] . Argentine politics are therefore highly unstable . Achieving political order would require the government to limit its actions and guarantee the rights of citizens — neither of which has yet occurred in Argentina .