Good morning friends ! So I 've been planning to vlog today um because I was going to do like a little productive day of my life blah blah blah but then I literally had a mental breakdown at 4 am last night . And I was like , I ca n't vlog tomorrow because I 'm just not gon na have the mental energy or the physical energy to do anything productive . Like I did n't even think I would be able to wake up for my 8:15 a.m. yoga class that I signed up for , but I am awake . So I was kind of like , maybe I should vlog today and just see how my day turns around because we 're getting off on a rough start right now . But yeah , I will just take you guys through another day in my life . I 'll take you guys to yoga with me and we 'll just see if things improve . I have my glasses on now . Um today 's Wednesday , it 's quite gloomy out . Yeah , I have my usual co-op today . And then after that , I have my class , my marketing brand management class . And I have a meeting tonight . I 'm gon na start getting ready for my yoga class soon so let 's start doing that . I got this workout set from Amazon and it is so good . It 's like really thick and stretchy and comfy and soft . This is my fit for the day . I guess I 've come to the conclusion that if I wear more workout clothes , like just in my daily life , then I 'll be more inclined to go to the gym because I do n't have to like change OOTD haha . Alright , I 'm pretty much all ready to go , I just need to like pack my bag because I am basically just not coming home . I 'm going to Saxby 's right after to just do all the work I need to do for the day , so yeah . Alright , I 'm heading out . I 'm actually very excited for this yoga class . I think it 'll be good for me and it 's gon na be relaxing . But , I 'm running on a lot of coffee and very little sleep today . So eee wish me luck . Hey friends ! Hi ! We 're done with yoga . She 's nice . She gave me a foot massage . That one I was kind of like , whoa I 'm being touched now . It was nice , though . Yeah ! I usually do n't like massages , but like , this was fine . But yeah , we 're heading to Saxby 's now to do work . I have a Starbucks bottle with me . I always get super insecure . They 're probably looking at me and being like this bitch . I got Starbucks and went to United by Blue one day and I poured it into a different cup . Are you fucking kidding me ? It 's cheaper ! Starbucks is cheaper than United by Blue ? Yeah . That 's just like a local cafe . The chai latte is better . I 'm in a much better mood than I was this morning . I literally started the vlog and I was like , " hey ! " . And now we did yoga ! So now we did yoga . Serotonin is coursing through my body and so is a lot of caffeine . My co-op hours start in like an hour and I 'm just gon na be doing emails again and again . But that 's okay . Good afternoon friends ! I was a terrible vlogger today because I got home and just completely knocked so . Why is this avocado red ? Like red how ? Like literally red . Anyways now it 's like 5:19 p.m. We 're making dinner . As you can see , we 're we 're actively making dinner . And on today 's vlog segment of cooking with Ash , Harry ! Both wearing sorority sweatshirts . One of us needs to change . Well I got this from you and I put it on first . We 're making pesto pasta with penne , roasted peppers , onion , garlic , and avocado . AKA every vegetarian thing that Ash has in her fridge that will remotely go well together . Gordon Ramsay could never with this technique . The one - handed type . The one - handed chop whatever . You know I 've been cooking a lot more in my vlogs and I 'm starting to think like , what if Gordon Ramsay is watching my vlogs and just absolutely shitting on me . Alright friends we 're back , but now on Harry 's phone because my phone died . Mhm . We we love a boyfriend that supports the YouTube hustle . Yes it 's a I provide a service . Yeah , he does n't watch my videos though . I like them . You you like my videos ? Yeah I press the like button . Oh so you do n't even like , emotionally like them . You just physically like them . Well I 'm there for some of them so I like those . You only like the ones you 're featured in ? That 's not what I — that 's not what I said . That 's what you implied . Are we having our first couple fight on the vlog ? You 're taking words out of my mouth . I just do n't appreciate it . I 'm gon na I 'm gon na I 'm gon na call this vlog first couple fight , not click bait . Anyways we 're going to chop these bad boys up . Do you want to use all three of them or just like one of them or ? Why do n't we just use a little bit from all three so we get some color in there ? Yeah , let 's make it colorful . Yeah . Sizzle ! My parents are gon na be so proud of me that I 'm cooking . Yeah . I hope so . Mom and dad if you 're watching this , I 'm making healthy food . Here comes the pasta . Yay dinner ! It 's delicious . Hi guys , I 'm the worst and I forgot to do an outro for this . But yeah , that was just a little day in my life . My day really did turn around um and I did n't feel as bad as I used to in the morning . So yeah , I hope you guys enjoyed watching ! If you made it to this point in the video , you are a very good human , and I 'll see you in my next one ! Bye !