CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S65 January 20 , 2021 MAIDEN SPEECH Mr. President , I need to catch my breath , so much has happened . A few hours ago , on the West Front of this citadel of democracy , Joe Biden and KAMALA HARRIS were administered the oaths of Office to the Presidency and Vice Presidency of the United States . We have turned the page to a new chapter in the history of our democracy , and I am full of hope . I would challenge anyone not to feel hopeful today after listening to Amanda Gorman , the amazing 22 – year - old poet , wise far beyond her years , who told us that : Somehow we ’ve weathered and witnessed a nation that is n’t broken but simply unfinished The hope she spoke about — the strong and happy hope — the hope we feel today , is a hope , of course , that is tempered by reality . This was an inauguration unlike most others . The crowds that customarily line the National Mall were absent , a reminder that our Nation is still in the throes of a deadly pandemic . The presence of thousands of National Guardsmen , police , and Secret Service was a reminder that 2 weeks ago , in this very room and on those very steps where President Biden took the oath , a mob of violent criminals tried to dismantle our democracy — our sacred democracy — brick by brick and would try again if they could . But , as President Biden said a few hours ago , today , democracy has prevailed , the will of the people was heeded , and the peaceful transfer of power fulfilled . It takes a lot more than a band of hooligans to bring our grand democracy down . Let it be a message to our friends and adversaries around the world that our democracy , though it has been tried and been tested , shall long endure . And let it be a message to those terrorists who desecrated this temple of democracy that they will never prevail . Joe Biden is now the 46th President of the United States . KAMALA HARRIS is now the 49th Vice President of the United States . But , of course , in more ways than one , she is not the 49th but the first — the first African - American woman , the first Asian - American woman , and the first woman , period , to hold the Office of Vice Presidency in our Nation ’s history . Today , the threat to our democracy from the Presidency itself has ended , but the challenges we face as a nation remain . In the wake of violence and division , hatred and mistruth , in the shadow of disease and economic hardship , a warming planet and unequal society , we begin the work of the 117th Congress . In his inaugural address , President Biden spoke to this moment — a moment of great challenge — and told us two simple truths : One , that our responsibilities are numerous , and , two , it will take unity — unity of spirit , unity of purpose — to fulfill them . President Biden , we heard you loud and clear . We have a lengthy agenda , and we need to get it done together . President Biden pointed the way to our Nation ’s recovery and renewal . He reminded us of who we are and where we need to go , but we must now turn the spirit of his words into action . The Senate must immediately set to work on the mission President Biden described — restoring the greatness and goodness of America . This will be an exceptionally busy and consequential period for the U.S. Senate . There is much to do , and we are ready to get to work . Now , not to upstage our new President and Vice President , but theirs has not been the only swearing in today . A few moments ago , the Senate welcomed three new Members to this Chamber . I can now happily and proudly call them Senator PADILLA , Senator OSSOFF , and Senator WARNOCK . They join Senators KELLY , HICKENLOOPER , and Luján as part of a six - Member class of Democratic Senators and a new Democratic Senate majority . I mention the historic nature of Vice President HARRIS ’ ascendance , but let ’s not forget that her successor , ALEX PADILLA , is the first Latino Senator to represent California ; that RAFAEL WARNOCK , born while Georgia was represented in this Chamber by two staunch segregationists , is now the first African - American Senator Georgia has ever elected ; and that JOHN OSSOFF is the first Jewish Senator from his State , sworn in today on a book of Hebrew Scripture once owned by the rabbi , who , decades ago , formed a bond between the Jewish and African - American communities of Georgia . As President Biden said in his inaugural address , “ do n’t tell me things ca n’t change . ” With the swearing in of these three Senators , the Senate will turn to Democratic control , for which I deeply thank my colleagues . We will return to Democratic control under the first New York - born majority leader in American history — a kid from Brooklyn , the son of an exterminator and a housewife , and a descendant of victims of the Holocaust . That I should be the leader of this new Senate majority is an awesome responsibility — awesome in the Biblical sense , as the angels that tremble in awe before God . Today , I feel the full weight of that responsibility , a sense of reverence and of awe at the trust placed in me . I intend to honor that trust with all of my energy and with joy . And as the majority changes in the Senate , the Senate will do business differently . The Senate will address the challenges our country faces head on and without delay , not with timid solutions but with boldness and with courage . The Senate will tackle the perils of the moment , a once - in - a - generation health and economic crisis , and it will strive to make progress on generations - long struggle for racial justice , economic justice , equality of opportunity , and equality under the law . And make no mistake , the Senate will forcefully , consistently , and urgently address the greatest threat to this country and to our planet : climate change . This Senate will legislate . It will be active , responsive , energetic , and bold . And to my Republican colleagues , when and where we can , the Democratic majority will strive to make this important work bipartisan . The Senate works best when we work together . We have no choice . The challenges we face are great . The divisions in the country are real . We have no choice but to try to work together every day to reward the faith the American people have placed in us . So let us begin . I yield the floor .