So you do n't need to go borrow equipment from anybody , to to do the feet ? Do the hooves ? Well , we 're gon na have to find somewhere , to get , something So , Mae – I 'm gon na Mae Lynne We 're not gon na do the feet today , I 'm gon na wait till like , early in the morning , to do those , cause y- I mean you get so tired . N- you just , it takes well , it takes me longer than most people , cause you know , I 'm not as strong and , and I 'm not as good , as like somebody that would do it all the time . You know . I mean , oh I mean I trim horses , and stuff like that , but I mean , I 'm not like , I 'm not uh , . I do n't know how to say it . But you know , they do it for a living . You know , most people that you would get to trim your horse do it all the time . And I 'm not that good or , and I 'm not very strong . Did they train you — Yeah . Did they train you that — Yeah . Yeah . So you have your own equipment , but — No . I do n't have my own equipment at all . Dad , you know , has done some of it . That 's another thing too , is I kinda had a b- general idea , of kinda how to do it , just watching him . Or — and watching , people come to our place , and doing it and stuff you know . And , I do n't know . Then , down there , um , it 's mandatory . You have to — to graduate , you know , or well , to get the degree , you know , you have to take this class . And you can only take — if you want to , you can only take it for eight weeks . And , if you wan na go on in it , you n- — then , you can go on . You know . And I decided to go ahead and go on in it . And the first part of it , is like , well we have lecture , then we have lab . And like , the first part of it , we just go into the classroom , and he like ... In the beginning of the year there was a lot of classroom work . I mean , it — that 's just kinda how it happens , you know , because he kinda has to tell you ... They go over the whole , the whole part of the horse . I mean , all the skeleton part of it you know , and — and they go through every kind a ligament . And I mean , there 's , millions of ligaments , and millions of tendons , you know , well not millions , but , I mean ... Yeah , I bet . And then , so we had to know these tendons , and ligaments , and then , all the bones , and , you know , all the way up – from the shoulder down , and then from the hip down . You know , all the way down to the hoof , and then , the bone in the hoof , and , then all the wall , and , you know , of the hoof , and , what everything was called there , and then , he went over on how to trim it , and where you — Th- there 's a white line , that you go by , and a horse has this little white line , and you clean it out with the — with the hoof knife . You know ? And then there — and then you can see this little white line ? And that 's kinda where you go by , to — You know , the horse kinda helps you out , because it , has that little white line right there . Mhm . And that 's where you kinda — kinda need a little guide , of where you trim . And , I am still scared to do it . Because , you know , I mean , you can make a horse go lame , by doing it . Really ? Well you can trim em too short . And make em , you know , and they 're just a little bit , for f- the first couple of days , you know , I mean they 're just sore . That 's not bad , but sometimes you can get it really bad . You can really make a horse really bad . And they m- You know then , they have to , like , keep em , away from anything , you know , get em really in the soft ground , and , no hard pebbles , or hard clods of dirt or anything ? So , I do n't know . I 'm a little scared about doing it yet . You know , I get em really long . I mean they 're still long , when I get done with them . A lot of times , like , I 'll get done , and I 'll think I 'm done , and I 'll look at – look down at the horse 's hoof , and it 's still , it 's too long . And then like , I would never , ever , ever , trust myself , to shoe a horse . See we did that too . We did — we did a lot of stuff . We did a lot of stuff with the — like we had the , um , the burners ? You know , and you 'd put the — you 'd have — you started out with the straight iron ? You know ? And you 'd stick it into the , into the , you know like , actual blacksmithing . And you 'd put it into the hot coals , you know ? And then , we 'd — I I – straight bar . And we 'd make it a — a horseshoe out of it , you know ? But , these shoes we never did put on a horse . We just put the shoes that were already made , on a horse . And that 's as far as we got . I mean , if you would really get into it , well as a matter of fact , this is really funny . You know , there is n't really any girl farriers around anywhere . They 're really — Farrier ? Th- – yeah . Farrier is what they 're called . And the m- — the reason they were showing us this at college , was just , to get us , to know if our trimmer , and shoer was doing it right , and — plus the knowledge of knowing the bones and ligaments . Which we , we had it in another class too . We — that was kind of a double thing that , we had in — in another class , so it was kinda review for us . Well it was a review for some people , depending on what time of the year you took it . You know . If it was a review or not . But , anyway , um , what was I gon na say ? I forgot what I was think- — You said you never made the horseshoes . Gon na say . But . Well , w- um , when we put em on a horse 's hoof , all we do , they 're already made . They 're round . We pick out a size . You know we 'd like look at the horse 's hoof , and say , okay , this is a double - aught . This is an aught . This is , you know . What s- — what size . And double - aught and aught , are the ones that are most popular . For , you know , the light horse . You know , I mean , you get into the big horses , the — like the Clydesdales , Shires , that 's a d- — a whole different thing . Or ponies , that 's a whole different thing . But we 're talking just the regular , light horses you know .