Sydfynske Øhav Sydfynske Øhav , the South Funen Archipelago , is located south of the Danish island of Funen , comprising 55 islands and islets , at the mouth of the Baltic Sea , with a bit more than 20,000 inhabitants in total . It is one of Denmark 's most scenic areas , and should be a top destination of anyone taking the time to explore Denmark outside the capital . Understand The islands were formed during the last ice age , by ice sliding over the area from the south , only the ancient hilltops was spared from submersion , and forms the many islands and islets peaking above the sea everywhere . The area has a milder climate than the country 's average , and because of this , is home to flora and fauna not seen anywhere else in Denmark . There are strong local movements to convert the area into a National Park . Flora & fauna The area is one of the most diverse natural environments in the country , and is designated as an international wildlife protection area , as it is home of several rare and protected species . If you are interested ornithology the many shallow waters around the islands and islets is a treat with thousands of birds and colonies , one of the more notable is the Arctic Tern , which migrates to Antarctica and back ( nearly 40,000 kilometers ) every year . This is the longest regular migration by any known animal . You also find Shore Crabs , Beach Otters and - rare for Denmark - Seals in the shallow waters and beaches . On dry land , up on the many islands you can find badgers , stoats and several types of deer . While possibly the most exciting animals are found beneath the water : the Harbour Porpoise , Denmark 's only resident whale population . Get in Tåsinge , Langeland and a few of the smaller islands are connected with bridges , but to most of the islands transportation is done with tiny ferries ploughing through the island sea several times per day . The main entry points are Svendborg which is easily reach both by highway , bus and train - and Faaborg , which is best reached by bus from Odense . From Langeland there are ferries to some other islands . For easy reference ferries are listed under the individual islands . From Spodsbjerg on Langeland there is a ferry connection across the great belt to Tårs on Lolland . Get around Bringing a car to the islands serves little point but to rob your wallet of your hard earned cash , and you will be much better served by bringing or renting a bike in Svendborg or Faaborg , or just simply walk since the islands are generally small enough to make this feasible . While some islands are connected by the same ferry , you will generally have to go back to the mainland to pass between the islands , if you rely on public transportation . However the best way to visit is really by boat , and there are plenty of options to do this . A popular option , and one good for your health too , is by sea kayak . There are several mapped routes in the area , but remember to be realistic about your fitness , as some of these routes take you a fair bit away from land . Several rental places also gives you the option of trained guide , which can both provide information about the sights you visit , and make sure you are safe . It is also possible to rent Smack Dinghies with sails to ease the strain , or larger cattle barges if you are in a group at Øhavet 's smakkecenter on Strynø . Øhavets Smakkecenter , Strynø Brovej 12 ( Strynø ) , ☏ +4550981306 , ✉ info@smakkecenter.dk . Smack Dinghies : 225 DKK per hour / 825 DKK per day , Sea Kayak : 125 DKK per hour / 350 DKK per day , 1 hour instruction : 450 DKK . Walk The archipelago trail ( da : Øhavsstien ) is a 220 km hiking trail connected by ferries that circles the entire area . Completed in 2008 the trail is well marked with regular signs set on wooden poles . Allow 4 - 7 days for the whole trail depending on experience and your desired pace , but it is also possible do to day trips along the route . The local tourist offices in Svendborg and Faaborg can arrange baggage forwarding between your chosen camps or accommodations during peak season . Pre arranged package tours are also available from Travel Heels in Taasinge or Vagabond Tours in Tranekær , in cooperation with the local tourist authority . If you choose to do the trek individually be mindful that substantial part of the trails crosses private property , so be considerate . A comprehensive guidebook with excellent maps is available in Danish only for 150 Kr at most tourist offices in the region . Pamphlets with maps , tips and points of interest in English , broken up into 7 parts is available at the tourist offices as well and as pdf files on the introductory link , it is sometimes also available at parking lots along the route , but these are only restocked a couple of times throughout the year , so you may be out of luck . Vagabond Tours , Bjerrebyvej 6 ( Tranekær ) , ☏ +4533330040 , ✉ info@vagabondtours.dk . 2500 - 4600 Kr . Travel Heels , Vindebyørevej 42 ( Taasinge ) , ☏ +4588304520 , ✉ info@travelheels.dk . With local guide , for women only 1380 - 2075 . See Islands in the archipelago listed in east to west order ; note that there are many more islands and islets in the area , but these are the ones with ferry traffic that are possible to visit without making special arrangements . Most other islands are closed during much of the year for the protection of local wildlife . For the remainder of the year , short stays are permitted , which is interpreted by the authorities as a day or a night . While you are normally not allowed to set up a tent , you are permitted to sleep on the beach in a sleeping bag , if necessary under a primitive cover like a tarpaulin . Birkholm Ferry from Marstal on Ærø , 25 minutes , 1 departure per day ( but ordering additional departures are possible ) , 70 DKK . Marina : 54 º 55,7 ' N 10 º 30,0 ' E ; VHF ; 10 berths at ? DKK ; Depth : 2 m ; Speed : 3 knots . Birkholm Is only 1 km ² and home of a stubborn but loving 8 people , making it one of the smallest populated islands in the country , how long the island can sustain a full year population remains to be seen , but permanent life on the island will probably be a thing of the past in a not too distant future . Non the less it is a pretty , but incredibly flat place , with the highest point towering a proud 1,8 meters over the sea ! some fine old farm houses which the remaining population does a commendable job trying to maintain , since many of them are now empty and the rest used as vacation home for " Danish foreigners " . There are some nice beaches and good fishing once you 've toured the island . If you are a hunter , you might be lucky to run into the yearly Pheasant or hare hunts - you can even rest assured your " evil deeds " does some good , as it supports life on the island .