How to Prepare Quinoa Quinoa is known as the little rice of Peru . The Incas treated the crop as sacred and referred to quinoa as " chisaya mama " or " mother of all grains . " [ 1 ] By tradition , the Inca emperor would sow the first seeds of the season using " golden implements . " Quinoa is rich in protein and much lighter than other grains . It is much easier to prepare than rice and is rapidly gaining in popularity , especially among vegetarians who value its high protein levels . Ingredients 1 cup quinoa 2 cups water ( or broth ) Olive oil to taste ( Optional ) 1/2 teaspoon salt ( Optional ) Method 1 Cooking On A Stove Top Rinse the grains of quinoa in water . You can skip this step if you have purchased pre-rinsed quinoa in a box . To rinse , place the measured grain in a strainer under running water for a few minutes . This is necessary to remove the excess saponins on the outside of the grains which impart a bitter flavor to quinoa if not removed . Toast quinoa in a saucepan ( optional ) . Drizzle a bit of olive oil in a pan over medium - high heat . Add the quinoa and cook for about 1 minute . This brings out quinoa 's nutty flavor . Cook the quinoa . Place two parts water or stock to one part of quinoa in a saucepan over medium - high heat and bring to a boil . Cover and reduce heat to low . Simmer the quinoa for about 15 minutes or until the grain becomes translucent and the white germ forms a visible spiral on the exterior of the quinoa grain . Try to ensure there is an al dente bite to the germ , in the same way as pasta . Quinoa will continue cooking for a bit even after you take it off the heat . Take the quinoa off the heat and let stand , covered , for 5 minutes . This will give it time to absorb any moisture that might still be in the pan . Uncover and fluff with a fork . The quinoa should look light and fluffy , and you should be able to see the germ separating from the seed . Serve . Freshly cooked quinoa should be served immediately to retain nutritional value and a good flavor . Serve with : Stir - fry , using the quinoa as a substitute for rice . Curry . Braised meat . In a salad . Virtually any other combination you can think of ! Method 2 Cooking In a Rice Cooker Rinse 1 cup of quinoa in a fine mesh sieve under cold water . If you bought packaged quinoa , this step is n't always necessary , but it 's better to be safe than sorry . Pour quinoa into rice cooker . One option is to toast the quinoa before placing in the rice cooker . See Step # 2 in Method One above for directions . Add 2 cups of liquid and 1/2 teaspoon of salt into the rice cooker . Water , chicken stock or broth , or vegetable stock all work . Cook for approximately 15 minutes . Some rice cooker will have different settings instead of a simple " cook " option . Try the " white rice " option if your rice cooker gives you several options . Let stand for about 5 minutes . Fluff with a fork and serve . Method 3 Cooking In the Oven Preheat oven to 350 ° F ( 177 ° C ) . Arrange rack in the middle of the oven . Rinse quinoa thoroughly in a fine mesh seive under cold water . In a medium saucepan , heat up 2 tablespoons vegetable oil over medium - low heat . Add onions , peppers , mushrooms , or any other type of desired vegetable or herb into the saucepan ( optional ) . Cook onions until they are translucent , but not burned . Sweat the peppers or vegetables along with the onions . Add the quinoa and salt to the saucepan , stirring until completely incorporated . This should take no longer than 30 seconds . Add one cup of broth and one cup of water to the saucepan and bring to a boil over medium high heat . Once a boil is reached , transfer quinoa to a 8 - by - 8 - inch baking dish . [ 2 ] Spread out quinoa evenly and cover baking dish completely with aluminum foil . Cook the quinoa in the oven for roughly 20 minutes , or until most of the liquid is gone . Remove the aluminum foil from the baking dish , add cheese or other seasonings , and bake for an additional 5 minutes . After 5 minutes , the quinoa should be fully cooked . Serve and enjoy !