We know that this is a virus of a type called coronavirus , which makes it part of the family of viruses that include the common cold , SARS and MERS . Um , now , what distinguishes this new virus technically called SARS-CoV-2 ? Now , I usually just call it Covid - 19 , like most reports do . But what distinguishes it is that it is highly infectious and highly virulent . Now , highly infectious means it is easily passed from one person to another . Highly virulent means it can cause death easily . It has been compared in this respect to the 1918 flu pandemic , which we estimated infected about 500 million people worldwide . Now , that was about one third of the population at that time , so that would be , if the same proportion holds true , that would be over 2 billion people , um , in 2020 . Now the death toll was anywhere from 20 to 50 million people from this 1918 flu , and that may be a conservative estimate . I 've seen estimates go as high as 100 million . Now , you know , why do n't we know a precise number ? Well , assigning cause of death is not a precise science . And in many parts of the world , particularly in 1918 , medical record keeping was not , uh , terribly good . Um , so you know that -- but that gives you an idea of what that could be , uh , so we could be talking about , uh , again , keeping the proportion the same , about 200 million people dying if it was the same as 1918 . Now , I do n't think it 's going to be quite that bad , uh , because medical science has advanced . Alright . Um so what can help here ? Well , the ultimate answer to this would be a vaccine . Thankfully , the antivaxxers have crawled back under whatever rocks they live under for the time being . But a vaccine is not a perfect answer right now . The good news is that the coronavirus appears to be one that does not mutate a lot , which means the vaccine is likely to be more effective than the flu vaccine , which is kind of guesswork year by year and that is because the influenza virus changes every year . Now , scientists are working on a vaccine right now in a crash program . Uh , and again , there 's some good news on that front . First , Chinese scientists were able to DNA sequence the virus pretty quickly . That is one of those advances in medical technology that puts us in a better position than we were in 1918 . We 've learned how to do rapid DNA sequencing . They found that this virus shares 80 to 90 % of its DNA with the SARS virus , which is one of the reasons why it 's named SARS-CoV-2 . Uh , unfortunately , we do n't have a SARS vaccine , uh , because that outbreak died off before work was completed . Um , and you know why that was ? Because they clamped down and forced people to stay home , and that 's what stopped the disease . Um , now , the fact that they started on it means that there 's work there that we can build on . But in general , most researchers have said it will take as much as 18 months , even with a crash program . Uh , and I 've seen a few people say that even 18 months is ridiculously optimistic . Uh , but with the amount of focus on this , I 'm willing to be a little bit optimistic on that . Usually vaccines take a lot longer . Um , generally on the order of a decade or more . Uh , the -- you find a candidate and then first thing you do is , is animal studies uh , both for safety and for efficacy . Uh , for example , one of the early candidates for a SARS vaccine was actually causing harm to the animals who received it . Uh , well , you do n't go forward with that . Uh , they figured out -- they think they figured out what caused that problem and reformulated it in a way that they do n't have that problem anymore . Um , but , you know , if the animal trials are promising , you can move on to human trials . Uh , stage one is to test with a small number of healthy volunteers looking specifically to test safety . You do n't want to administer a vaccine that kills everyone or even a significant number of people . Now , if the candidate passes that test , stage two is to administer the vaccine to a few hundred people in an area where the disease is rampant . If it looks like it is working and no safety issues have arisen , a final trial can involve several thousand people . If it passes that , it can be approved for medical use and move into production . Now that 's not the end of it because production adds even more delays . It takes a long time . Uh , according to Ronald Klain , who was the Obama administration 's Ebola czar and , you know , that 's what first got people in our federal government seriously thinking about this , at least until Trump came along , and what Klain says is " developing and testing the vaccine , as hard as it is , is n't the hardest part . Manufacturing hundreds of millions of doses and getting people to take the vaccine will be harder and take longer . " Now , when I read that , the first thing that jumps into my mind is hundreds of millions . Uh , that 's just , you know , the population of the United States . Well , you know , if that 's all you 're concerned with , fine . But I think people all over the world are going to want this . Um , so that means we need to be talking about billions . Now , this process can be accelerated to some degree , but not by as much as you might think . Doing the research to find a candidate that might work will take time . You know , frequently it starts , um , basically in Petri dishes where you put in , uh samples of the virus and then add a candidate and , you know , see if it has any effect and stuff like that .