Chief Justice Kennedy and may it please the Court . My name is Eric Levi and I 'm arguing for appellant Darnell Hurt . Uh , attorney John Martin will be arguing the rebuttal , and we 'd reserve five minutes of time . Your honors , if I may , I 'd like to start by addressing proposition of law number three . In proposition of law number three , we have an ultimate finding of fact which was resolved in favor of Darnell Hurt . This finding of fact was in regard to a provocation mitigator , um , on the voluntary manslaughter charge . Darnell Hurt had asked for the provocation mitiger- mitigator to apply to all offenses which he was charged , which includes the felonious assault , and indirectly then he also requested it , um , for the felony murder charge as well . The provocation mitigator is identical for the voluntary manslaughter as well as the felonious assaults and felony murder . We believe that on retrial , collateral estoppel would prevent retrial without regard for the jury 's prior finding in Hurt 's favor , that ther- that the provocation mitigator existed , that he was acting under serious provocation . In fact , at the trial , the State , and it can be found in the transcript at pages 774 and 775 , admitted as much and conceded so in its closing argument by stating to the jury that the victim was coming into this apartment . He was coming in hot and he pulled out his firearm . And here comes Melvin Dobson arriving at the scene to the rescue of his daughter . And that incenses him , Hurt , to the point where he uses deadly force . And then they said , if you apply all the factors , that 's voluntary manslaughter . That 's where this count applies . The State of Ohio had then directed the jury to find these provocation mitigators , which it did . In looking at Green versus United States and the courts , the high court out of the state of Texas and the federal circuits in Kennedy versus Washington on this constitutional issue , I believe that the authority uh exists to find that collateral estoppel would preclude the defendant from having to prove these mitigators a second time to a different jury because he preserved the issue by requesting the jury instruction for the mitigators on all of the applicable counts , and he did n't request that the jury -- or concede to permit the jury to be discharged without considering those mitigators , when the jury did n't consider them and the additional counts , it acted almost as an applied acquittal or an applied um finding towards this affirmative defense . The high court in Texas in ex parte Jimmy Dean Watkins agreed with that . And it indicated that in any additional trial , once a jury finds those provocation mitigators , that it ca n't be required to find them again . Additionally , in the Kennedy versus Washington uh matter , the Federal Circuit Court stated that the Green versus United States implied acquittal would generally apply in cases where the provocation mitigator was at issue . It was addressed and argued by both sides , and the jury was asked to make a finding . Here the jury made the finding . It made a specific finding for the provocation mitigator . And while it did n't find it on each and every specific count , that was solely because the instruction was n't given even though requested . Counsel , um , should n't the arguments related to Proposition three B , are they ripe for for ruling ? Should n't these arguments be made at the -- at the trial court , given the fact that this was remanded ? So , Your Honor , this was remanded for a retrial and it 's remanded on the grounds of double jeopardy through the prong of collateral estoppel . And under double jeopardy , not only is an individual precluded from being convicted twice , or to stand trial twice for an offense , he was already acquitted of , he 's also precluded from having to actually stand trial to go back to trial for a second time when the acquittal was already made . In this case , it 's a finding of fact under collateral estoppel , but it amounts to an affirmative defense to acquit him of the murder , essentially . Um , so where the murderer was already negated by the findings for the -- the mitigators , we believe that it is ripe at this point um prior to new trial , that this court rule on this and preclude um the trial court from requiring that he face the murder charges again . What about the other issues ? I mean , how can they be ripe ? The proble- , uh , excuse me , the uh -- the self defense issues uh we believe are ripe first and foremost in proposition .