So Erasmus laid the the — laid the egg , which Luther hatched . And um , when you come then , to , uh , however this debate . This freedom of the will . Um , I think uh , let me read you a page from Brendler . Because it sets the sa- stage very nicely . This is in the Luther book some of you are reading , and um , if you , this evening when you go home , if you wan na meditate it on more , on – on it more , it 's on page three eleven . It 's on page three eleven . But , let me just read you the – , cause this gives us the setting very nicely , and then we can uh , Erasmus entitled his anti-Luther pamphlet , Diatribe Concerning Free Will . Once again , the first and fundamental questions , disputed in fifteen sixteen , and fifteen seventeen , and again in Heidelberg , in April of fifteen eighteen , with which Luther had opened the assault on scholastic theology , were debated . Luther was glad to take up the theme of this debate . And this is what Luther writes to Erasmus . You alone , among all the others , have recognized the key question . And you do not bore me , with the Papacy , purgatory , indulgences , and similar nonsense . You , and you alone , have identified that on which all else hinges . And you have put the razor to the throat . And for that I thank you heartily . Um , thus Luther evalu- uh evaluated the subject . And Erasmus commented on the significance of their engagement , in battle , in his own style . And he wrote to Luther . Perhaps an Erasmus who writes against you , will do more for the Gospel , than certain dunderheads who support you . And then , humanistic thinking , will never consent . This is Brendler now , obs- – uh on this uh , but this sets the stage for what we 're gon na talk about . Humanistic thinking will never consent to the doctrine of original sin . Pico de la Mirandela would not have consented to the doctrine of original sin . The author of uh , what is it , Houseman I think , of Invictus . I am the master of my fate , I am the captain of my soul . I do n't think that he would acknowledge original sin . Is based uh , alright , what is it , it 's based , as it is , on the concept , that human nature is totally depraved , and of itself not capable of any good will . And that apart from grace alone , free will is nothing , can do nothing , does nothing , except depraved deeds . Even though these pronouncements are Biblically based , and may be acceptable within an exclusively theological system , they do not appear reconcilable with the dignity of man- – dignity of man . Catholic , and semi-pelagianism , with all of its emphasis on on the role of prevenient grace , finally views free will as the decisive factor in attaining salvation , thereby conceptualizing free will , as similar to a healthy man- – healthy human understanding . For how can a person , be responsible for his deeds , if he possesses no free will ? This is what Erasmus asked . How can he decide between good and evil ? So reasoned Erasmus . Such arguments , long known to Luther , and many times presented to him , impressed him not in the least . God alone is salvation . God alone measures guilt . He alone condemns . He alone grants grace . Justifies and saves . When he will , and whom he will . Man can do nothing against the divine prerogative . Man can only accept the divine judgment . This is in fact best . And if by — and — and it is by the divine prerogative , that man will — uh , that man is well provided for . For God alone is infallible , and his being is grace and mercy . This concept , that man is divinely elected to salvation , or to damnation , is the center of the predestination dogma , that later , the Geneva reformer Calvin , made the center of his teaching , and that subsequently , under other historical preconditions and circumstances , could be linked closely with a prosperous middle class , in the Netherlands , and in England . Um , uh , skip this paragraph . This is the paragraph though . Right here , the next one , p- on page three twelve , when you , when you read – if you wan na read it later . Therefore , Luther did not accept rational arguments against predestination doctrine . Such arguments , on the contrary , necessarily appeared to Luther , given his theological orientation , as suspicious , from the very start , because they originated from human nature , which exalted itself against God . The whore reason prefers to submit to the Devil , adjusts to all situations , and proves everything , that is demanded of her . Human nature , does not possess free will . It is like a horse , ridden by God or the Devil . The rider possesses the will . The horse obeys . Well that 's as clear as you can get it . Human nature is like a horse , ridden by God or the Devil . The rider possesses free will . The horse obeys . Alright that , th- now the debate is joined you see . And as you come — as Erasmus comes to this , he 's going to say , well let 's look at the Scriptures . Now , number one , we have to admit first – v- first off , that there seem to be passages , there are passages in the Scriptures . Are there not ? Many . Which seem to teach , that man is responsible for his deeds , and that he may act , and has a free will to respond to the invitation of God . Is n't that clear in the Scriptures ? Whosoever will may come . Um , Jesus turned to his disciples , you remember , when some deserted him , and seemed , because they were disappointed in some of his sayings , and they were offended by some of the things he said , and they walked no longer with him it said . And then he turned to those who remained , and he said , will ye also go away ? They had a choice . Did n't they ? Will you go away ? What do you will ? And the will , apparently was , re- resided in in these disciples . And so Erasmus is going to say , so obviously , in Scripture we have paradox . We have clear passages of Scripture , which seem to indicate that man has a free will , and that he can exercise that will , to follow , or not to follow . To respond or not to respond . On the other hand , we have passages of Scripture , which seem to indicate , that the will is not free , and that the – , and that man i- th- is – man is predestined by a an omnipotent sovereign will of God .