Okay , the next case will be uh , Mitchell Roberts , versus , uh , Matthew Collins , ABC Builders Interiors ? This — both sides are here ? Is this contested ? Who 's Mitchell Roberts ? Right here . Okay . Sit on this side here . Sure . Thank you . Who 's the party being s- served ? You are ? Nice pen . Alright . Okay , let 's see , who 's here now . Mr. Roberts ? Right here . And you brought an action , against uh Matthew Collins , for um , roughly seven - hundred dollars , for labor installing a carpet . T- uh , during last uh August to September . Okay , and uh , just tell me about how you arrived at uh this claim . Uh I was called by Matthew here , to do the job for him . So I went out and looked at the job — Okay , you run a — you run a a carpet business I presume ? Yes . I 'm a licensed contractor . Okay . Um , the job was out at UCSB , I went and estimated the job for myself , to see if I could take the job , for what he wanted to pay for it , and I let him know that I could not . Do the job . I would n't make any money . So uh , upon me telling him that , he offered to pay my employees , fill out — he had em fill out W2 forms all of em , and he paid em , to lessen the burden of payment on me , so that I in turn would make more money off the job . I agreed to that , after about — Ca- is that a normal procedure ? Not at all . He wanted me to do the job , so he offered to take some of the monetary burden off my back , so that I could do it for the agreed amounts that we were gon na do it on . So in other words , your — your helpers would really be his employees for the purpose of this job . That 's correct . He had em all fill out the plo- proper forms . So then your costs would be reduced there as far as — That 's correct . Alright . Uh , I went to receive my check , of which , we had agreed that he would deduct the amount of the hourly wage , that he was — Was this agreement in writing , or verbal ? Completely verbal . I 've been working with him for like six years . Uh , upon a reve- uh — uh receiving my check , uh , for about two and a half weeks of work , approximately between fifty and seventy hours , I was paid three - hundred and sixteen dollars and fifty - one cents . So I approached him with it , and he handed me this yellow piece of paper here , and noted that , what the employees made , and uh , at twenty - six percent less deduction on these two employees . Which was the employer contribution . So I noted to him that he was supposed to pay that , he said , uh n- , no , you 're gon na pay it . So I said that 's not as per our agreement , he said yes it is , he handed me my check , rolled up his window , and drove off . And he 's there to state , he 's — he saw that , and was witness to that . I have a letter — I do n- I do n't think it 's relevant that he rolled up his window and drove off . Well , I know . But , that – that was the end of our thing , I tried to contact him everything , finally I uh contacted my attorney . I 'd like to present this letter to you here . Okay . If I may look at that ? And , have you shown that to uh Mr. Collins ? Yes , please . Yes . He has — he has received a copy of that letter . Now Stu Roberts is an attorney . Is that correct ? Yes sir . You 're uh — I 'm his nephew . You 're his nephew . And you 're Nick Ro- Roberts ' nephew too then . That 's correct . Okay . So uh your uncle then wrote uh Builders uh a letter , that 's what I 'm reading now . Yes sir . Uh I do emphasize that I 'm reading it , this is not evidence , this is only y- your story , that you 've told Mr. Roberts . That 's correct , that 's correct . Okay . So really the dispute then boils down to this twenty - six percent . That 's it sir . Okay . That 's the reason why I had him fill out that portion of , or he wanted to write those checks , was so I would save that money , so I would do that job . Okay . At the end of the job . Mr. Collins I know you 're biting at the bit there , you wan na say something , so why do n't you go ahead . Okay thank you your honor . Um , uh pretty much , um , what Mitchell has stated is untrue . Mitchell , uh did do some work for me out at the college , we did the Anacapa Residential Hall . And this is a , eight - thousand - yard job , that we did this summer . It required us to , employ , oh five or six crews , uh Mitchell Roberts was one of them that we used , on the job . Uh Mitchell expressed a desire to do the work out there , he expressed , he did not know how to handle the payroll . Most of the , uh , contractors here in town , that are independents like Mitchell , do n't know how to do prevailing wage statements . The college is a state - funded uh uh remodel , and on state - funded remodels , we 're required to pay prevailing wages . Uh prevailing wages , that , um , that indicate different levels of agility , of the different men working . And so , uh a lot of the crews , uh , like Mitchell , who have people that work under him , around town , in regular situations , come to the people like me , and ask us to do payroll for them . When we do the payroll for them , we state to them up front , that uh , we will pay the payroll , we will make the deductions , and then the employer contribution , which is approximately twenty - six percent , over and above the hourly wage , is also deducted , from the um subcontractor 's check . Now this uh th- twenty - six percent , that 'd be be social security . And what else would it include ? Um — Sorta like , um — That 's anything above that . Well you have — you have — you have that — I have a breakdown here , of what we paid Mitchell 's men , if you 'd like to see that . Okay . I mean , do — yeah , y- you got a total of uh , seven point six five percent employer contributions on the — Um , that explains it pretty well , there 's quite a few deductions , of course — Oh and and the oh the — the f- the annual unemployment insurance , and uh — Right . Okay . Worker 's compensation . Right .