Are you — do they still teach at Bahia on Sunday ? Night ? Oh yeah . In fact I would have gone today , if it was n't for my back . Well I finally found some people there I can dance with . So that helps . Do you need a partner ? To go there ? Yeah . No . Besides , you , I mean if you 're a guy , if — If you 're a woman , I mean , those guys 'll be all over you . I swear it . Do n't say that , Harold 's in the room . Run along now , dear . You could come too . Well I do n't necessarily mean , in a bad way , even though I 'm sure there are a few there , I 'm not dancing with guys . All I can say is , the women are n't all over me . Darn . Ooh . But , but I remember , like I went there with this person , it 's kind of funny . Th- this person did not want to dance . So she 's just gon na watch . So , every once in a while I 'd get up and dance , and it 's like , when I 'd come back , I mean there was some guy there , sitting in my chair . Every time I got up . I 'm thinking , God these guys do n't waste any time . I mean , you turn your back and there 's somebody moving in . I mean I do n't know if they — Maybe Harold you should come with me . Why ? Learn some lam- lambada . So I can find — find some girls with empty chairs next to em ? Maybe I should go with Miles . Oh did — Yeah , you guys could be partners . Did — What ? Well I do n't know if I told you , told you that story about that woman , who uh , went after that guy there ? I told you that story , right ? I was there Sunday three four weeks ago ? Uh , after the class is over w- over with , I 'm sitting down at a table , there 's a woman from — who was in the class , and two men , sitting to my right , is a table with two women there . They had apparently just come from Oba Oba . On the last night — Oh I think you told me . The last night — Yeah . And like , well they were attractive women , the one had on a real real short skirt . Anyway , there was this guy in his fifties , out there dancing , by himself . And the woman was just looking at him , making eyes , then she went out there , got on her knees , in front of him , in this skirt that 's this short , takes her hands , and goes along his toes , and then up , and is just doing like that . Ooh . I figured , oh , they must know each other . Ooh . Very well , in fact . Mhm . Gross . That 's what I assumed . And , they did that for the whole dance , and I mean , she was d- all kind of suggestive stuff , and touching him and everything , people would like cheering , and clapping , " go for it " . And all this kind of thing ? The – the song ended , the guy set down , at another table . And she set down — At a — At the table with her woman friend . They never danced again the rest of the evening . Hm . This is like — so I was thinking , this woman 's sitting about as far away from me as Jamie is . And I was thinking , hm , this is interesting . I wonder how long it was gon na take the guys in this club to move in on her . No sooner did I think this thought , guys were over there . What , you did n't ask her to dance ? Not Miles , he 's just in daze . Well I was still trying to figure out , surely they must know each other , I mean , why was n't he sitting at her table ? You mean , you were still thinking about it . Anyway , this guy , I mean he comes over there , immediately afterwards — The same guy who got his — the same guy who 's — No , it 's just some random guy . Or just some random guy . No , a random guy , who was like sitting about where you are . Yeah . He was sitting there , there were two guys sitting at a table right where you are . And then these two women are sitting here . So uh , he comes over there , and is talking with that woman I do n't know about what , but then like ten minutes later , she and her friend are over at their table . And then , twenty minutes later , they were kinda like all over each other . You know , kissing , et cetera , et cetera . And I was thinking , it looks like these people are n't going home alone tonight . Gosh . But I just thought that — No wonder they forbid this dance . So — Oh my God , what a story . Well , maybe I should n't go there then . Yeah , maybe you should n't .