Good morning , your honors . My name is Amy Sells . I 'm with Tiffany and Bosco . I 'm here on behalf of the appellants Chase and Chelsea McCombs . This is a fascinating case in that it is a battleground for testing recently amended rules or somewhat recently amended rules . On one hand , starting with Rule 37 , that was amended back in 2018 in order to make mandatory disclosures under Rule 2016 more -- Rule 26.1 , more robust . And then on the other hand , the elimination of peremptory strikes . I 'd like to start . Well , first , I should say I 'd like to reserve two minutes for rebuttal . And I 'd like to start with the issue of the 483 undisclosed photos , because I think that 's our premier issue here . And I 'd like to discuss intervening , superseding cause because I think that 's where the rubber hits the road . Remember at trial , the precise origin of the fire was not determined . The best that the experts could say was that they agreed that the fire started in the northeast quadrant of the living room . In that northeast quadrant was Debbie 's smoking chair , as well as the entertaining center . And that meant that meant that the cause of the fire was most probably either an electrical fire or a cigarette fire . And so the defense said that Debbie caused her own death by starting the fire with a cigarette . And when you look at the closing argument slide the defense counsel used , he used a slide that set forth nearly all of his intervening superseding cause theories . And it was a slide that was titled " Debbie Died Because " . In the first -- it 's five bullet points -- in the first bullet point is " she accidentally set the house on fire with a cigarette " . Second , " she decided to fight the fire . " Third , " she fell into a burning chair . " Fourth , " she did n't escape when she could . " Fifth , " she was in poor health . " Now , Defense on appeal says that we should ignore four out of five of these intervening causes and instead just focus on one , that Debbie stayed to fight the fire . But if you look at the jury instructions , the definition of intervening , superseding cause is not -- does not restrict that theory to Debbie staying to fight the fire . And in fact , the definition actually is n't tethered whatsoever to any of the intervening superseding cause theories . Counsel , are you , arguing that the , um , that the , the specific mechanism of the fire 's origin is , is really the crux of , of the causation issue , that there 's a substantive difference in the decision to fight the cause about whether she stayed , whether she caused it or an electrical or there was a spark out of the entertainment system ? Is that what you 're arguing ? Yes , in part that , I would phrase it another way , in that the precise origin of the fire , um , and the precise piece of furniture that she fell on is relevant to intervening , superseding cause . Please go straight to that . Let me let me hear what you say about that . Okay . Well , if they 're arguing , for example , no , the the origin of the fire is not an electrical fire . But in fact Debbie started the fire with a cigarette then that in and of itself is an intervening , superseding cause of Debbie 's death . On the other hand , with respect to -- And so that breaks the causal chain , right . On the other hand , with respect to the precise piece of furniture , their argument is that she stayed to fight the fire , which was located at her beloved smoking chair . With the benefit of these 483 photos , we were able to -- we are now able to make the argument that the burns that are on Debbie 's chest , which reflect a two inch and a one inch serpentine burn , are consistent with the coils that are on the couch on the south side of the living room , as well as that chair that 's on the west side of the living room , both of which have coils that are mixed two inch and one inch . So in other words , we 're able to argue that she did n't stay to fight the fire and then fall into her smoking chair . In fact , it appears as though she was doing exactly what defendants were saying that she should have done all along , which is trying to escape , and in the process fell into either the couch or the west side chair , which are on the way to either the carport door or the sliding glass door . But not the front door with the double deadbolt lock ? That 's correct . Well , the theory it is their theory of intervening , superseding cause that she stayed to fight the fire . And that 's why these particular pieces of furniture and the origin of the the fire become relevant is because it relates to their defense . Am I not -- ? Correct . But the theory of the case was the double deadbolt lock , the failure to or actually the violation of putting a double deadbolt lock on it , an egress . Uh delayed , you know , exit and then resulted in smoke inhalation and death . Is that not was that not the theory ? Right . That is the theory . And then their defense is , well , she should n't have she should have sought out alternative routes , number one . And those alternative routes being the carport or the sliding glass door . And in the process , instead of seeking out those routes , she she decided to stay and fight the fire in the living room . But your theory as I understood it , your client 's theory was the smoke alarms were n't activated . They were taken down . The front door was deadbolted . And it does n't whether she you know , you can say she stayed to fight the fire . She -- it was n't that she was overcome and never had a chance to get to these alternative routes . Is n't that an accurate statement of your client 's theory ? Correct . So , uh , your client got the instructions , did it not ? That resulted in a fine that would have , as Judge Gass , I think , said the jury had to find your client was or the trust was negligent because these two things did not comply with statute . They were -- the statute applied . They were supposed to be functioning smoke alarms . There was not supposed to be a deadbolt . So negligence was established . Correct ?