Hey , what 's up everyone ? Welcome back to another video . For those of you who are new here and do n't know me , my name is Jasmine , and I 'm so glad you 're here on my channel . If you have n't already followed my social media , I 'll link it right here . My socials are @jasthenurse . So , if you have n't watched my other video , I wanted to give you guys an update as to my experience with Covid . For those of you who had n't already watched that video , I 'm gon na link that video right here so that you can watch it . Um , so essentially , on the 16th of December , I tested positive for Covid . If I 'm sounding out of breath , my lingering shortness of breath , and then also you know that I always talk fast in these videos . In this video , I wanted to update you all regarding my symptoms of Covid and just my overall experience with it . For one , it can make people more aware and then hopefully make people feel a little bit less alone . So , my first symptom , which was on Monday , was a sore throat . And the thing is , on Sunday night , I had gotten back from work around 9:00 pm , so I took a shower . Um I never really dried my hair , which is so awful , but I decided to go straight to bed because I was so exhausted . I just wanted to go to sleep . But I went to bed with my hair wet . And you know like when you wake up sometimes you have like a sore throat because of the fact that your hair was wet and you were cold ? So , I assumed oh that like maybe it was just like a sore throat gotten because I did n't bother to you know blow dry my hair . So , that happened . Um what about my day Tuesday ? My sister tests positive . So , you know like I go oh shit like I 've been hanging out in the car with her . Even though I was wearing a mask , she was n't wearing a mask , and she was like obviously coughing um . And so that prolonged period of time , we were probably in the car with each other for like 40 minutes because we drove one way and then drove back . That 40 minutes , her coffee in the car , the – all the windows closed , and even though I had a mask on , the virus circulates . That Tuesday , I remember I had been getting a little bit more symptomatic . My sore throat did n't go away , um very very mild symptoms . I – all the clinics were closed by the time that she had gotten her results which was around like 6:00 pm . I had booked an appointment or an e-visit with my um insurance to get me tested the next day . I get tested on Wednesday , and when I 'm tested on Wednesday , I remember that night , um I believe that was the day where I had actually gotten a fever and chills . So , at night I was getting really hot then cold then hot and cold . And I remember at one point I checked my temperature 's only like 98.7 , but at another point it was like 101 or something really high that was obviously a fever . And then around day four , everything started to like stabilize . Five , it was like really nothing . Um day six was when I noticed like the my sinuses were feeling weird . It was no longer a headache anymore . It was more like my like congestion like right up here , it was like a weird . Know when it – you ca n't like sneeze ? That 's what the feeling was . It felt like like like there was a sneeze drop in there , and I could n't get it out . Um so , day six and seven , I started noticing that my taste buds started to change . Oh , let me mention , um nearly day two or three , my senses were like really really heightened . I do n't know if you remember the clip of when I had been eating those chips . Chips taste so strong to me . I guess that 's like what happens when you lose your taste buds , I do n't know , olfactory nerves , I do n't know . So , from there , I had gotten um a complete 180 and went from everything being like really heightened sense of taste and even the smell , because I remember I was gargling apple cider vinegar , and I remember smelling it from across the room , and now I ca n't really . Well , I would say that I have like 30 percent of my taste and smell . So , for example , if you can see my Bath and Body Works candle , I try to smell that every morning to see if my change in smell changes , and I have like maybe 30 percent of my like smelling capabilities . I have to get like this close to be able to smell the candle , which is insane because those candles are so strong , you literally open one up and you can smell it all over your room . I can still smell , but not to my like fullest capability . I do n't know if you guys have seen those like TikToks where people try and drink different things like pickle juice and water and Gatorade . First of all , that 's like super inaccurate . When you drink , you can still , for example , I took like a ginger shot this morning , and it had cayenne pepper . I can still that feel that burning sensation . So , for example , I tested if I could drink alcohol , and I drank a Truly , and I can still taste the alcohol like burning sensation going down . So , you can kind of distinguish if it 's like sweet or salty or tart um , but you ca n't really taste it to its fullest if that makes any sense . Like like for example , I made mac and cheese , I do n't know if you saw earlier . I do n't really know exactly how it tastes because I can only like I can kind of taste the cheese , um the saltiness , but it 's more so um I 'm able to feel the textures .