When I tour around Taiwan , of course , I also find people taking action without even waiting for the ministries to take action . This is another of the g0v projects the environmental agency . If you change the O to a zero , you get into them , considering environmental agency . This is what people care about , the air quality , PM 2.5 in Taiwan . More than 2,000 people , actually , installed these in their balconies , in their schools and so on , to get a real - time sensor of their IoT devices but not just IoT . They also upload it to the public cloud , which then uploads it to a distributed ledger to make sure that nobody can modify those numbers after the fact . After that , we see this kind of innovation is very rare in Asia . When I talk to all the UN - related bodies , many other Asian countries tell me that they wo n't let this network grow to be 2,000 nodes strong . If it 's 200 nodes strong , they will try to poach the leader to the government . If they refuse , then maybe , they get disappeared because they really challenge the legitimacy of the environmental agency . If the environmental agency group reports one number and your neighbors report another number , of course , you 're going to trust the one that you participated yourself , even though it 's a lower quality sensor . Because of that , it 's very rare in Taiwan because we have an expanding civic space . The government takes the approach of , " we ca n't beat them , let 's join them " . We manufacture low - cost , high - precision sensors for them , but we also see this as a map of digital gap in Taiwan , a digital divide . We set up points when the people do n't have the resource to go to , indigenous places , places in the mountains . We also talk to the citizen scientists and they say they really want a point here to tell the air pollution from outside Taiwan or from inside Taiwan , domestically . There 's no way the citizen scientists can install an AirBox there , even if they 're very good at drones and so on . It 's impossible to stay there forever . We can because we have wind turbines . That 's electricity generators , power plants , over there . We can install those sensor networks as part of the complementary action . The beauty is this , it 's all open hardware . It 's all open source . It 's on GitHub . You just download , put it onto Raspberry Pi , and then , you can do it yourself , as people have done over the world . If you do n't change the source code , it uploads to the Taiwan network by default , so we kind of have the numbers of all the atmosphere and meteorological data . We have a website dedicated for this , the Civil IoT project at CI.taiwan.gov.tw , that is basically , collective intelligence , meteorological , air quality , earthquake , and disaster prevention , and things like that . We have single websites like this , CI for Collective Intelligence , AI for AI Taiwan , SI for Social Innovation , Smart Taiwan for the Smart Taiwan plan , and also , Bio Taiwan . The medical industry says , " You really should call it biomed.taiwan because bio and med are different things . " Biomed Taiwan goes to the same website as Bio Taiwan . In any case , what we 're doing is now is breaking across ministry and municipality and national government because this says nothing about the level of the government or the departments . It is one , single message that is collaboratively curated by everybody . Through this , we solved not just our local social and environmental issues through economic approaches but using the SDGs as a map to unite the efforts together . Just by saying " Taiwan can help " , we mean specifically , 17 , 18 , which is the availability of reliable data that people from across sectors , across jurisdictions , can trust the data . Then , based on the data , we encourage cross-sectoral partnerships . Then , based on that , we make open innovations that we , then , export , not as colonizers but , really , co-creators . Just download it on GitHub and then , we devise something together in a way that has free access to science and technology . When I joined the cabinet two years ago , based on these ideas -- with a contract -- the administration asked me for a job description , because they 've never seen anything like this before . Instead of a job description , I just wrote them a poem , a prayer , which I 'm going to read to you as a conclusion . To me , it means the shift from IT or ICT to digital , the shift from the sectors separately as attack or an innovation , or whatever , into the humanity as a whole . This is digital transformation for me . This is , literally , my job description . It goes like this . " When we see the Internet of Things , let 's make it an Internet of Beings . When we see virtual reality , let 's make it a shared reality . When we see machine learning , let 's make it collaborative learning . When we see user experience , let 's make it about human experience , and whenever we hear that a singularity is near , let 's keep in mind and always remember that a plurality is here . " Thank you so much .