August 19 , 1975 Dear Hannah : We are back from Europe , having been to London then to Mallorca and back to London . It was hot , as you yourself will know from your stay in Switzerland and the newspapers -- London was sweltering and the parks are not green , probably for the first time in two hundred years . Martha greatly enjoyed our stay in Mallorca at the villa of our friend Vane Ivanovic . Luncheons and dinners were crowded with guests , but in the evenings she played bridge constantly and gossiped with our hostess . Vane himself presented me with five hundred pages of his memoirs when I arrived and , between sleeping and talking , I cut and edited the work : I am on holiday the inveterate and proverbial busman . I wrote only about 2000 words on my novel , but I 've finished now five chapters . It is romantic , and sad , which is to say , interesting experience recollected . At Vane 's villa I met the Prince of Spain , Alphonso , who is the son of King Alphonso 's deaf and mute son ( the second one ) . The Prince is married to Franco 's granddaughter , a marvelously beautiful and seriously educated girl of twenty - six who is quite wasted on this royalist . I thought that in Mallorca I had at least escaped my duties as Regent , but Alphonso asked me about bilingual education for Puerto Ricans and beraded the Americans for suppressing their " fourteen million Latins . " He told me that Dean Acheson told him that Harry Truman denied Spain Marshall Plan aid because Truman was a Protestant . When I argued that a lot of American felt deeply about the Spanish Civil War , and that the Marshall Plan was devised to help countries ravaged by the war , whereas Spain did not fight , he replied that this was a superficial answer . Is n't it marvelous how wars , even when they are not fought , are found to betray everyone ? It is a quiet summer in New York , especially as there is n't such news except that of the city 's financial troubles . Odd , though , that there is none of the hectic spending and living here that seems to obtain amongst moneyed people and even the middle classes in London , where I was amazed to discover that the shops are full and places of entertainment are crowed . I do n't know what to make of it -- the idea that it shows the last days of Rome does n't quite strike me as right . The pound will surely fall to $ 2.00 -- I 've already started to discount our assets in London , although the operating revenues and profits there on our scientific books and journals are holding up quite apart from inflation in prices . What 's happening in New York will happen in some other cities around the world , I am convinced : Milan or Rome , Paris , Jakarta , and so forth . We miss you , Hannah , but we know that you must be getting some real rest . Will you go to Israel at the end of your stay ? What are the dates of Aberdeen ? Is there anything you need ? I 've seen the doctor twice since I 've been back , and he 's convinced that I just missed an " episode , " which means that I suffered what is always called , rather badly I think , a " coronary insufficiency . " I feel quite well now and I am watching myself . I lost twelve pounds . I 've promised Dr. Steiner that I will not travel at all , and on humid days I stay at home and work and read . I 'm rereading Johnson 's Lives of The Poets , a splendid work that proves that the best criticism is based on sensibility to art and prejudice to behavior . Mary is working away on her novel . I 've been in touch with her briefly -- of course I saw her when she arrived in New York -- about reissuing Stones of Florence . I am publishing the Chiaramonte book in the Spring . Mary has provided a preface . How does The Life of the Mind proceed ? I look forward to going over manuscript with you when you return . We were , as you will recall , interrupted when we were working at Aberdeen . Hannah , Martha and I send you love and greetings and we hope that the summer ends with lazy leisurely days for you . We shall be seeing you soon . Yours , Bill