Good evening everybody and welcome to Beyond the Mat ! The Beyond the Mat show after WrestleMania . Well , it happened folks . WrestleMania happened , Raw happened , Smackdown happened , everything fucking happened . Holy shit , there is so much to talk about this week , and we ’re going to cover it all , the best we can . I ’m your host as always , Dave , and I am joined by Alex . Howdy ! We were supposed to have word from Carl . We do n’t know where he is , so I ’ll just take that as a – he ’s one of the people that is cutting his wrists because the Undertaker ’s career is over ! Those of you who take offense to that , fuck off and – What did , uh , what ’s his name – what did , uh , our , our , wh- , the one that always is dressed up like Undertaker on Facebook ? Yeah , he did the exact same thing , he folded his clothes and put ’em on or something . Yeah , I thought I saw that picture , what does it look like , what is he – what is he doing ? I ’m ignoring anybody who is taking this retirement personally and acting like this is the end of the fucking world . Um , I ’m gon na say this right now , and I ’m gon na say it again when we get to the match – I ’m glad it ’s over . And I know people that are getting offended by that . I ’m glad it ’s over . Look , I I can just – look , I fucking cried when – I fucking cried when – but it ’s OK , it ’s it ’s not the end of the world . It ’s not the end of the world . You can still watch wrestling , it ’s not “ oh , he retired ; that ’s it , I ’m done , I ca n’t watch it anymore . ” I mean , for God ’s sakes , he was only there like – I mean , how many days are in a year ? 365 days , so he was there one out of – c’m on . Three days . Four days . He made two appearances . I mean , I mean , OK , think about it like this : at Wrestlemania 31 he was there once the whole year , cause he was only there the day of Wrestlemania . So that ’s one day of the year that you watched him , that year . So that ’s , really ? Are you really missing that much of wrestling by not having Undertaker there ? I mean , come on . He ’s my favorite wrestler , easily . Yeah , and he ’ll be mine as well , but there does come a time when you have to go “ look , it ’s over ” . I mean the guy – the guy – the guy ca n’t wrestle forever . I mean he ’s – he was , 53 ? Yeah that was not -- he wrestled like a 75,000 year - old man . Yeah , when we get to that match I ’m gon na be so critical on it . And I know people are gon na be pissed off at me . And I do n’t care , I ’m gon na call it like I see it , the rose colored glasses are off , the nostalgia is gone . Stop wanting the fucking 90s back , because the 90s are dead , get the fuck over it . Um , yeah . You people and your fucking 90s nostalgia , stop it . Let the 90s fucking die . Let it fucking die , please , just stop . Stop . Ugh . How ’s your week been Alex ? It ’s been good , yeah . Um , it was – like , I do n’t even remember – well , let me see . I forgot to mention , I guess I should mention this now . Ugh ! Good time , better than never . This is actually not from this week but , let me see . When was this ? Let me look at the calendar real quick on the computer . This would have been … not last week , but the week – no , not last week , not the week before that , but the week before that , on March 25th was my 29th birthday . And you ’re just now letting us know ? Well I belie- I think I was wished happy birthday by all of you on Facebook , so , that ’s fine . But I did n’t – but I do n’t think we ’ve had a show since , cause we – cause we – cause we missed so many shows in a row . But uh , yeah , I put a video up on YouTube . We all drank a whole lot ta shit . Um , I did n’t get drunk at all despite literally shotgunning I think six or seven shots of … was it tequila ? .. yeah , I think it was like really really decent tequila , in a row . I did n’t feel anything , cause I do n’t know that ’s just how I am . And some sake . But yeah , that ’s up there on my YouTube channel , not that anybody ever goes on it . So uh , this week I do n’t know , they added more DLC , the only DLC for King of Fighters . King of Fighters XIV . Did you say you liked Rock Howard ? I forget . I do n’t mind Rock Howard . Um I think he ’s cool . I ’ve always been an Andy Bogard , Terry Bogard … Well they ’re already in the game , so . Yeah , I know . And I ’m decent with Kim but I ’m OK with Rock . Rock is now DLC for the game along with uh who else ? Yamazaki . Is Iori in there or did they take him out ? It ’s Iori I think , or Yori ? Tall guy with the fucking red hair . Not Rugal , but … No , I know who Rugal is .