Re(a)d Wedding : A Comparative Discourse Analysis of Fan Responses to Game of Thrones It is no exaggeration to say that HBO ’s Game of Thrones is more than just a television series or a successful brand : it is a transmedia system in the sense first used by Marsha Kinder ( 1991 ) and popularized by Henry Jenkins ( 2006 ) , in which media - hopping networks of intertextualities extend the “ storyworld ” of an original production . Now spanning six seasons and 60 episodes , with an average global viewership ( from its most recent season ) of 25.1 million viewers per episode ( Shepherd , 2016 ) , it has spawned five video games , a graphic novel adaptation , several companion books , two rap albums , a 28 - city orchestral tour , a wide variety of tabletop games , toys , merchandise and mobile apps , and countless podcasts , fanfics and other fan - based creations . Given the volume of content this represents , it is easy to forget that the television series itself is an adaptation of a book series with a pre-existing fandom . As such , the Game of Thrones storyworld represents a remarkably rich and challenging environment for fans old and new , who must negotiate an increasingly complex network of paratexts and intertexts in order to fully engage with its narratives . In this sense , fans of the series represent an emerging model for cultural consumption that should be carefully explored . Transmedia systems , like that exemplified by Game of Thrones , are becoming increasingly prevalent ( e.g. , Star Wars , Harry Potter , The Walking Dead , the Marvel Cinematic Universe , etc ) ; these systems demonstrate , in microcosm , the global challenge of managing the fire - hose flow of information in contemporary postdigital society . The study of how people , as fans , access and manage information within a transmedia system provides valuable insight that contributes not only to practitioners and scholars of the media industry , but to the wider context of cultural studies , by offering findings on this new model of the fan as consumer and information - user . For us , as digital humanists , defining the “ transmedia fan ” is of particular relevance as we seek to understand contemporary social and cultural transformations engendered by digital technologies . Methodology As a first step in defining the “ transmedia fan ” , the current project undertakes a comparative discourse analysis of online conversations of Game of Thrones fans . One of the most dramatic plot developments in the source material ( Martin , 2000 ) was adapted to the screen in the penultimate episode of the third season , “ The Rains of Castamere ” ( Benioff & Weiss , 2013 ) . Readers of the book series had long anticipated and dreaded the events of the “ Red Wedding ” , while fans of the show unfamiliar with Martin ’s narrative were largely taken unawares by the pivotal episode . Since the television series ’ inception , writers at The AV Club have written two critical reviews for each episode : one for viewers familiar with the books ( i.e. , “ Experts ” ) and one for viewers unfamiliar with the books and averse to “ spoilers ” ( i.e. , “ Newbies ” ) . What results are two completely separate reviews of “ The Rains of Castamere ” which in turn document the fans ’ reactions to the episode in the form of user comment threads : one comment thread where fans were expected to be shocked by the outcome of the episode and one comment thread where fans had hotly anticipated it . As a pilot project , the current work takes the content of both comment threads — a corpus of approximately 5,600 comments — and analyzes each thread separately using a qualitative coding method aligned with constructivist grounded theory ( Charmaz , 2006 ) . Through this analysis , a categorization of themes emerges illustrating tactics for negotiating intertexts and paratexts unique to each group of fans . These themes fall under two broad categories : negotiation ( i.e. , emotional responses ) and tactical negotiation ( i.e. , cognitive , or reasoned responses ) . A comparison of categories and sub-categories between both groups provides preliminary findings to support an emergent model , or models , of the “ transmedia fan ” . Conclusion The present research represents a first step in exploring the impact of transmedia systems , as exemplified by Game of Thrones , through the study of fans . The question posed by this research is , fundamentally , an examination of how the problem of “ access ” is framed in postdigital society from the perspective of the consumer . Future research should explore the negotiation tactics observed in transmedia fans using the principles of De Certeau ’s ( 1984 ) everyday life practice , in order to extend its application to the broader context of modern - day consumers . The current study will contribute to the development of further qualitative and quantitative research that will more clearly define the information behaviors of the transmedia fan . This project is of relevance to researchers in media studies , fan studies , information studies and digital humanities .