How to Detect Arrogant People Do you always seem to cross paths with people who are stuck on themselves , intolerant of people different from them , rude or downright arrogant ? These people can be a great source of potential pain , and this article is here to help you sort the arrogant from the not - so - arrogant . Steps Pay attention to their conversations . Do n't eavesdrop , but when they 're talking to you or to those around you , listen to them . Is it always about them ? Do they get mad or irritated if the centre of attention moves to someone else ? These are good signs of arrogance . Arrogance and smugness is often a reflection of limited life experience , and feeling concerned that those with greater life experience " have got something over them " . Rather than seeking to find out more through questions and learning ( actions viewed by them as showing vulnerability ) , arrogant people tend to generalize from their limited , narrow life experiences and try to impose their small worldview on others . Jealousy of your achievements or seeming lifestyle can cause another person to feel smug or arrogant about something they think they do better than you or own / have that you do n't . Arrogant people have an extremely strong need to look good . When you make them look bad - even if it is the slightest offense - they will usually be very mad at you . This happens when you question ( or at least seem to question ) their appearance , intelligence , athletic abilities , or anything else relating to their self - image . Challenge their worldview . Do n't be aggressive –– just skeptical and curious . If they get upset , gauge their anger . If it 's minimal , they may be simply having a bad day . But if they 're enraged , then they may see you as questioning their ' perfect little world . ' And having one of those is usually indicative of arrogance . At some point or another , most people realize that the world does n't revolve around them . Arrogant people counteract this by creating an atmosphere that revolves around them , and get angry if they 're reminded of the real world . Ambiguity frightens arrogant people because it suggests imperfection , change and lack of certainty ( realities we all must contend with as best we can ) . As such , instead of accepting that the world behaves randomly and at times totally averse to one 's preferences , the arrogant person seeks to control everything and everyone , which of course , is an impossible mission . Reality hurts when it intrudes ; as such , an arrogant person is less likely than other people to self - reflect or analyse , thereby not seeing their own imperfections . They may also give themselves undue credit for positive achievements instead of acknowledging the input of others or of circumstances . Learn the quality of their friendships . Do n't be nosy or gossipy , but if they are happy with someone one day and hateful with them the next , that 's a sign of them having a lot of fair weather friends . That 's a sign of arrogance , since it is very hard to be a truly good friend to someone who 's stuck on themselves . Prideful people have a strong need to look good , and being self - sufficient is an effective way to do that . Since being a good friend to someone usually means helping them , they often ca n't stand the thought of a good friendship . Ironically , arrogant people often ca n't understand why they do n't have any reliable and supportive friends . How do they treat those not like themselves ? In other words , how do they treat those with different beliefs , cultural backgrounds and ways of seeing the world ? If it 's inherently negative , then they 're either over - zealous , ignorant of other people or what to avoid those that contradict their fantasy land that caters to them and them only . Determine this based on their general personality and the people they 're interacting with . Many times prideful people have a serious ' my - way 's - the - only - way ' attitude . This is simply a protective mechanism for their false image or their fantasy land . What 's their personality like ? Take note of how they act , talk , and use their social status . Do they have a general sense of ' coolness ? ' Are they a chatterbox ? Do they act like they own the place , or act like the ' big dog ? ' Are they very keen on their self - image ? Many arrogant people have a false charm that no one seems to see through . But the arrogant person is usually more than happy to show their cruel side to those that they do n't like . When they are cruel , their friends will usually ignore it or not do anything to stop it since they 're afraid that they 'll be treated badly by their ' friend . ' Mention people you know that they do n't like . This is n't meant to begin a conflict , but to gauge their rivalries , annoyances and enmities . If their condemnation seems to be reasonable , they probably are n't hubristic . If it 's harsh , they are . For the most part , arrogant people see people that they do n't like as threats to their perfect little world . The more they hate someone , the more dangerous that person is to their fantasy land . And in turn , the bigger the threat , the harsher the criticism . Ask around to see what they 've been saying about you . If they have been saying bad things about you , they may simply not like you . If they 're nice to your face , but talk bad about you behind your back like it 's their favourite hobby , then they probably have a problem with pride . Arrogant people often subconsciously know that they do n't have any good friends . They compensate for this by creating the impression that they have a lot of friends - they have a ' quantity , not quality ' mentality . Then they simply insult their trophy friends when they are n't looking .