FIFA World Cup 2018 day five : Sweden , Belgium , England win three points Tuesday , June 19 , 2018 Yesterday , day five of the 2018 FIFA football World Cup , Sweden defeated South Korea 1 – 0 ; Belgium defeated debutants Panama 3 – 0 ; and Tunisia lost 1 – 2 to England , with a late goal from English captain Harry Kane . Group F — Sweden 1 – 0 Korea Republic In the first game of the day , Sweden faced South Korea at the Nizhny Novgorod Stadium . Sweden had higher ball possession in the game . Korea 's Kim Shin-Wook was shown a yellow card early in the game . In the 20th minute , Marcus Berg missed a chance to put Sweden in the lead . Korea substituted Park Joo-Ho in the 28th minute of the game due to injury and was replaced by Kim Min-Woo . Despite their attempts , neither side could open the scoring in the first half as it ended 0 – 0 . In the second half , Hwang Hee-Chan was booked for a bad foul . In the 62nd minute Kim Min-Woo conceded a penalty which the match referee Joel Aguilar awarded Sweden after confirming with the video assistant referee . Swedish captain Andreas Granqvist scored from the penalty spot , putting Sweden 1 – 0 up . In the injury time , Hwang Hee-Chan 's header went wide to the left , missing a chance to equalise for Korea . The match ended with Sweden winning three points . Swedish captain Andreas Granqvist won the Budweiser Man of the Match award . This was Sweden 's first victory in the opening match of the World Cup since 1958 . Group G — Belgium 3 – 0 Panama In the first game of Group G , Belgium faced Panama at the Fisht Stadium in Sochi . Belgium had greater ball possession in the match . Belgium started the game with attacking style with Romelu Lukaku , Yannick Carrasco , and Dries Mertens making early attempts to put Belgium into the lead against debutans Panama . Dries Mertens 's attempt in the 18th minute failed . The first half ended with 0 – 0 on the scoreboard . Just two minutes in the second half , Dries Mertens scored a goal from a volley , putting the Belgians in the lead . Panama 's attempt in the 54th minute , by Michael Murillo , was saved by Thibaut Courtois . In the 69th minute , Romelu Lukaku doubled the lead for Belgium , scoring a header from Kevin De Bruyne 's assist . Six minutes later , Lukaku scored a third goal for Belgium , this time from Eden Hazard 's assist . In the 90th minute , Belgium made a change , as Nacer Chadli replaced Axel Witsel . The second half ended with the Belgians winning three points . Five Panamanian players were booked in the match . Lukaku won the Budweiser Man of the Match award . After the match , Hernan Dario Gomez , Panama coach , said , " I think we have learned a lot from today 's game . It was a very emotional day . This is the fifth time I 've been at a World Cup but it felt like the first . The team was still very emotional at the start of the match but as time went by , they were able to focus better . " Group G — Tunisia 1 – 2 England In the last match of the day , Tunisia faced England at the Volgograd Arena . England had better ball possession in the game . England started the match with attacking style , with attempts from Jesse Lingard , Harry Maguire , Harry Kane , and John Stones early in the game . Then England opened the scoring , when Harry Kane scored a close - ranged shot . Four minutes later , Tunisia 's goalkeeper Mouez Hassen was substituted off due to injury and replaced by Farouk Ben Mustapha . Tunisia won a penalty kick in the 33rd minute . English defender Kyle Walker was booked for his bad foul , and Ferjani Sassi scored from the penalty spot , equalising for the African side . The first half ended 1 – 1 on the scoreboard . In the second half , both sides had attempts for goals , but none crossing the goal line . In the injury time , English captain Harry Kane scored a second goal as England won a corner kick . The match came to end with England winning 2 – 1 and collecting three points . Harry Kane won the Budweiser Man of the Match award . He said , " In the first half it felt good out there . We could 've scored two or three goals in the first half and put the game to bed early . " After the match , Tunisia 's coach Nabil Maaloul said , " We were playing against a highly - skilled and highly co-ordinated team in terms of their forward players . If we were to get a draw it would have been an excellent result for us . But hopefully this will lead to higher levels of concentration in the coming games . "