Genoa City , Wis. August 6th 1964 John K. Bartram , Esquire Attorney at Law Bartram Building East Center Street Marion , Ohio Dear John ; Thank you for your call of this afternoon . It was a surprise for us to learn that apparently a decision was reached , perhaps by the judge that the letters are the property of Isabelle . Michel advised her on May 25th as follows : " There is a grave legal question involved as to whether or not these letters are the property of your mother 's estate and an appropriate legal action is contemplated to determine such question . " It is our considered opinion : Williamson should have sent them to the owner 's daughter as a very personal matter or auctioned them off when he sold Mrs. Phillips 's things on the auction block . He did neither . He sat on them 'til some reporter's warned him that they were hot merchandise . Then with the idea of seeking cover made a judge ( apparently ignorant of the law ) appoint an administrator for Mrs. Phillips 's estate for stolen merchandise held in posession of a court appointed guardian of Mrs. Phillips . To cap it all he permitted publication of these stolen letters by the press , although they were ordered by him to be under lock and key . Now it appears that Williamson is trying to defend himself to the public . A reporter from the Cleveland Press phoned on Monday last . He said that he wanted to check on a statement made by Williamson , since he claimed that while he was Mrs. P 's guardian he had never heard from Isabelle . We said ; " No comment " . Isabelle was not advised that her mother had a guardian . On Dec. 6th 1954 she had a power of attorney duly executed and witnessed by our attorney in Recine , Wis. in favor of Maud Gorham of Marion , Ohio especially to deal in all matters pertaining to Carrie Fulton Phillips . We have not seen the Press article of this week , nor one the Marion Star or any Columbus paper might have had , covering an interview with Williamson . If he does not leave Isabelle out of all of this he will have to suffer the consequences . Perhaps you can warn him for me . We will brand him with a libel iron , he wo n't forget . The mental and heart suffering caused by this S.O.B to Isabelle is very deep , I can assure you , John . She is sick & in doctor 's continual observation and care . If there are no live debts to be satisfied and if the only assets in the reopened estate administrated by Michel are these stolen letters , now apparently determined to be the property of Isabelle , why on that decision alone , can not these letters be surrendered and the estate be closed because of lack of assets . In that event , if you can succeed in getting that done , we would like to have the letters surrendered to you for destruction or surrender to the Harding family , as a possible value in checking the accuracy of any published stuff in the future . If the Court insists on these letters being an asset and refuses to close the estate and insists that they be appraised and sold by the administrator at highest value offered , we would want to be sure that the sales price received covers the expenditures and that any trans-action in connection with such a sale remain entirely free from press and publication abuse . John , as to the question of appraisers . In our business of antiques , that of antiquarians , we have and must have in certain states , licensed appraisers . All of them own their own respective businesses and sell . Among them is Ralph Newman , who is also a historian . Then of course there seem to be in this picture , so called historians , like the man you mentioned over the phone , Ed. K. Gross etc. We even had inquiries from the Wisconsin State College , D. F. Costello , Prof. A historian from Minneapolis wrote : would we sell the letters ? These kind of historians want something for nothing and could not appraise anything of this kind , since they do not know corresponding values . But all would want to take a look and see . John , Isabelle does not want to sell the letters unless we are forced to do so by the judge and his court under the auspices of estate jurisdiction . She has never seen them , knew nothing of their existence and does not care to see them now or ever . There are to ways out : 1) according to Paragraph 1 & 2 of this page and the preceeding paragraph , as we see it . In the first instance we would want to pay you your bill on conclusion or before as you like . In the second instance we wonder if you might take for a third of the net or how you would like to be compensated . In the meanrime with all best regards from the both of us , Sincerely , [ William Helmuth Mathée ]