10 : How to Save the Middle Class When Jobs Do n’t Pay ( Barnes ) By Peter Barnes #argument , #sharedvalues , #reportinginformation , #logos , #ethos , #pathos , #kairos , #currentevents , #causalargument , #proposal , #finances #advice Photo by Laity Lodge Family Camp under a CC license . There ’s long been a notion that , because money is a prerequisite for survival and security , everyone should be assured some income just for being alive . The notion has been advanced by liberals such as James Tobin , John Kenneth Galbraith , and George McGovern , and by conservatives like Friedrich Hayek , Milton Friedman , and Richard Nixon . It ’s embedded in the board game Monopoly , in which all players get equal payments when they pass Go . And yet , with one exception , Americans have been unable to agree on any plan that guarantees some income to everyone . The reasons lie mostly in the stories that surround such income . Is it welfare ? Is it redistribution ? Does it require higher taxes and bigger government ? Americans think dimly of all these things . But then , there ’s the exception . Jay Hammond , the Republican governor of Alaska from 1974 to 1982 , was an independent thinker who conceived of , and then persuaded Alaska ’s legislators to adopt , the world ’s first system for paying equal dividends to everyone . In Hammond ’s model , the money comes not from taxes but from a common resource : North Slope oil . Using proceeds from that gift of nature , the Alaska Permanent Fund has paid equal yearly dividends to every resident , including children , ranging from about $ 1,000 to over $ 3,000 . ( Bear in mind that a family of four collects four same - sized dividends . ) While this is n’t enough to live on , it nicely supplements Alaskans ’ other earnings . And paying such dividends regularly for more than thirty years has bolstered the state ’s economy , reduced poverty , and made Alaska one of the least unequal states in America . The question Americans in the lower 48 should now ask is : Did Alaska find the right formula ? If it can convert part of its common wealth into equal dividends for everyone , can the rest of America do the same ? [ ... ] How Would It Work Nationally ? How might a common wealth dividend system work at the national level ? The easy part is distributing the dividends . As in Alaska , enrollment could be done online and payments could wired electronically at a cost of pennies per transaction . The Social Security Administration could set that up in a jiffy . The harder part is collecting the revenue . In my latest book , With Liberty and Dividends For All , I show how , over time , we could generate enough revenue to pay dividends of up to $ 5,000 per person per year . Initially , a sizable chunk would come from selling a declining number of permits to dump carbon into our air . Later , more revenue could flow from our monetary infrastructure , our patent and copyright systems , and our electromagnetic airwaves . Consider what $ 5,000 per person per year would mean . If a child ’s dividends were saved and invested starting from birth , they ’d yield enough to pay for a debt - free college education at a public university . In midlife , $ 5,000 per person would add 25 percent to the income of a family of four earning $ 80,000 a year . In late life , it would boost the average retiree ’s Social Security benefit by about 30 percent . Thus , dividends from common wealth would provide a badly - needed boost for poor and middle class families during what promises to be a lasting shortage of good - paying jobs . Surprisingly , the core idea behind Alaska ’s dividends is over two centuries old . In his 1796 essay “ Agrarian Justice , ” American patriot Thomas Paine distinguished between two kinds of property : “ natural property , or that which comes to us from the Creator of the universe -- such as the earth , air , water … [ and ] artificial or acquired property , the invention of men . ” The second kind of property , Paine argued , must necessarily be distributed unequally , but the first kind belongs to everyone equally . It is the “ legitimate birthright ” of every man and woman , “ not charity but a right . ” And Paine went further . He proposed a practical way to implement that right : create a “ National Fund ” to pay every man and woman a lump sum ( roughly $ 17,000 in today ’s money ) at age twenty - one , and a stipend of about $ 1,000 a month after age fiftyfive . Revenue would come from what Paine called “ ground rent ” paid by landowners . He even showed mathematically how this could work . Presciently , Paine recognized that land , air , and water could be monetized not just for the benefit of a few but for the good of all . Further , he saw that this could be done at a national level . This was a remarkable feat of analysis and imagination , and it ’s time to apply it broadly . Today , Paine ’s core idea — that everyone has a right to equal income from common wealth — can be applied not just to natural resources but also to the creations of society . Consider , for example , the immense value created by our legal , intellectual , and financial infrastructures , the Internet , and our economy as a whole . This value is n’t created by single individuals or corporations ; it ’s created collectively and hence belongs equally to all . In a fairer economy some of it would actually be distributed to all . The ideal mechanism for doing this would be common wealth dividends — simple , transparent , direct ( not trickle down ) , built on co-ownership rather than redistribution , and politically appealing . And here ’s the best part . If Paine ’s idea and Alaska ’s model were applied at sufficient scale , the implications would be vast . The current tendencies of capitalism to widen inequality and devour nature would be self - corrected . Instead of plutocracy and climate change , our market economy would generate widely - shared , earth - friendly prosperity . And it would achieve these goals automatically , without much need for government intervention . Is this wild - eyed dreaming ? Possibly , but no more so than universal suffrage or Social Security once were . Common wealth dividends could be the next step in America ’s long march toward equal rights — and the game - changer that leads to a new version of capitalism . But first , we have to see the opportunity and demand it .