Mr. Chief Justice , may it please the Court : In September 1975 the Petitioner was arrested when he tried to steal a coat from a department store . Six months later he was brought to trial on a charge of attempted petty larceny . Had Petitioner pled guilty to that offense or been convicted of it after trial , he could have received a maximum sentence of one year in jail . He would have been released , at the very latest , in September of 1976 . He would now long since have been a free man . But Petitioner did not plead guilty and was not convicted . Instead , he raised an insanity defense , claiming that because he was mentally ill at the time he tried to steal the coat he should not be blamed for his act . The Government did not contest this claim and the trial court found , after a stipulated trial , that the Petitioner was not guilty by reason of insanity . On the basis of this acquittal and on this basis alone , the Petitier was -- Petitioner was ordered committed indefinitely to a mental hospital . That is , he was ordered confined until he could prove that he was not mentally ill and dangerous . P- Petitioner still remains confined in the hospital on the basis of that commitment , even though more than seven years have now passed since his initial incarceration and more than six years have passed since the time he would have necessarily been released had he been convicted rather than acquitted . Conceivably , he will remain committed in the hospital for the rest of his life . Petitioner contends that whatever the validity of his kinitial commitment to the hospital , once he had been confined there for longer than he could have been incarcerated upon conviction , his commitment became an indefinite one . And thus , the Government was constitutionally required to prove the need for his commitment by clear and convincing evidence , something which the Government has yet to do with respect to Mr. Jones . If it can not do so now , Petitioner submits , he is entitled to release . Mr. Wasserstrom , you 're not challenging , as I understand it , the -- the initial commitment . The only question , if I understand your position correctly , that you raise is whether he must be released at the time that the sentence period would have expired under the criminal statute , is that right ? Our position is , Your Honor , that he has to be released at that time unless the Government can at that time prove his commitability by the standards required . And you are not challenging , then , the , uh , standard or burden of proof at the time of his commitment ? It 's our position that that question is not raised in this case . Um , there are arguable justifications for that initial commitment , and we do n't discuss one way or another whether those justifications are sufficient to validate that initial commitment and we do n't think the Court need reach that question . Whatever reasons there are that might have init- -- have vali- -- have justified his initial commitment , those reasons would have justified only a commitment that could have lasted , without the Government meeting a burden of proof , for as long as he could have been incarcerated upon conviction -- If his initial commitment is not punitive , then how is the statutory period of , uh , time that he could serve on the criminal charge relevant ? Well , we think the only justifications that could , the only justifications that could , um , that could countenance that initial commitment are punitive in nature , that is , are a kind of punitive rationale . And so , to -- for us to agree with your position we would have to conclude that his initial commitment was punitive ? Well , Your Honor , I do n't think that it 's terribly important whether the word " punitive " is used , but I do think that any kinds of justifications which would justify the initial commitment are what I would call backward looking justifications , that is , justifications that do turn on the fact that he , it -- was found to have committed a criminal act beyond a reasonable doubt . And whether they 're treated as purely punitive or not does n't seem to me is , is , is , is important , or the label that we attach to them it does n't seem to me is important . The point is , though , those rationales all do turn on the nature of his act , and his act is one which , we submit , justifies confinement only for a year . But has n't this Court , as well as the United States Court of Appeals in the D.C. Circuit , said there 's no rational connection between the possible sentence and the possible length of stay after an acquittal , not guilty by reason of insanity ? I believe that the law in the United States Court of Appeals in Brown against the United States and in Wade v. Jacobs , in both of those cases the Court suggested that there is a relationship between the sentence that might have been imposed and the length that the commitment can persist without the Government proving , uh , proving commitability under civil commitment standards . I do n't think that this Court has , has uh , has addressed that question , and I then think this is the first case that raises it . Oh , the Court has said expressly that there 's no connection , in one case some time ago . Well , excuse me . Well , it is true in Lynch v. Overholser this Court suggested certain , uh , rationales for a commitment , but it did n't then go on to say whether those rationales were ones which would justify an indefinite commitment or simply one that would persist as long as the sentence that might have been imposed . And it 's our view that those rationales , whether you call them punitive or not , are , are all ones which evaporate once the accou- -- once the insanity acquittee has been confined for as long as he could have been confined if he had been convicted . Does your position depend at all on whether or not the initial crime was a crime of violence ? Uh , suppose this had been a street mugging , for example ? Well , of course , the more serious the crime , the longer the maximum sentence that could have been imposed and the more distant , uh , the rights that we 're talking about , the more distant in time the rights we 're talking about would become available .