The other thing about the witch , um , is that she 's doing that -- And again , it 's got that Dreamworks vibe , she 's -- a lot of anachronistic -- I mean , there 's later where it 's like it 's like , oh , it 's , yeah , it 's funny . But the whole pour in vial three if you 'd like to hear the the -- it 's like it 's so -- these anachronistic jokes that Pixar normally does n't really do , they do n't do that sort of , oh it 's it 's like that but it 's like voicemail . Yeah . It 's like our modern thing but in a medieval way . Yeah . Yeah , it 's , it 's you know because you 've seen the Shrek movies , right , with the Starbucks jokes and things . I ’m starting to become as baffled as Mike was . Now I 'm starting to , I 'm starting to feel it . Like now I 'm getting really confused . Yeah , because there 's -- What ? What the hell ? Also -- What are you doing movie ? Yeah . Also , by the way , it 's , there 's this whole , like , Ahab quality . And to , he 's lost his leg , and he 's got ta , by God , get his revenge on that bear . Yeah , dad hates bears , okay . But he does n’t spend a bunch of time looking for the bear . He 's just -- Yeah . So it 's sort of like a half - assed Ahab thing , but we , we 're supposed to sympathize with the dad , but Ahab is , like , clearly not a model of behavior that you should follow . Yeah , Ahab is a cautionary tale . Yeah . So he 's , like , doing this . Yeah and he 's not following it . It 's not like he 's been obsessed with the bear other than -- So maybe , I mean , maybe that 's a plot point that also needs to be there . It 's like , yeah , you 've been -- they do say you 've been telling the bear because everyone knows the bear story , the fucking bear story and it ate your leg . Okay . With all this , like , you know , macho dick waving going on with the testosterone crowd , it 's like , maybe it 's like , well , you ever think about maybe going and killing that bear , Mr. King tough guy ? Yeah , that 's what I 'll do . I 'll go kill that bear . You know , it 's like as opposed to there 's a bear in my castle , I 'm going to go kill it . It 's like , yeah , let 's go kill that bear . Yeah . Okay . Yeah . Do n't you want to question my manhood ? Yeah . Let 's go . Let 's go kill that bear . Yeah . Also the whole -- that 's another one of the fucking oddly cartoony Chuck Jonesy things is when the kids start waving around the chicken on a stick . And that 's a bear . Yeah . And everyone 's like " Yep , that 's a bear " . It 's a bear . Like , yeah , you got a lot of what got a lot of a lot of fear from these this crowd . That 's it 's -- and bear in mind the , the Chuck Jonesy thing , I call that out not because fuck that style of comedy . I call that out because when you do that style of comedy , that should be the style of comedy for the whole thing . Yeah , you can have stakes and real stuff going on in there . As long as that 's the agreed upon tone . You 're not going to get me to buy your Jeopardy later . If this is the movie you 're telling me this is . Right . It 's the Tropic Thunder thing . Kind of . But you , just , this movie 's all over the place and it 's , do you , here 's the question . Do you think this is possibly the like you do not understand how good this movie is ? We came back from this whole other thing like half saved version of the movie . Or do you think there was a fully realized other story that someone did n't like ? There is some insights on this that I 've read about . Well , maybe we should talk about that , because what I know or you know and you 've read much more in depth about it than I have , because all I know is that apparently . You would think that that Brenda Chapman would would just be like , " Oh , yeah , they totally screwed it up . I had a whole thing going " . Apparently she came out and was like , " Yeah , that 's basically what I was going to do with it " . She said her vision was communicated . Yeah , that 's fair . I do n't have any , I do n't know firsthand . And I 'm not sure that I know second hand because this is all Internet stuff . But around the time this was happening , that switch was happening and they swapped Brenda with , I forget the guy 's name that they brought in . Uh , Mark Andrews . Mark Andrews . That 's right . Who was like , he was , he was , he was involved from the beginning . They did n't just , like , bring him in from , from out of nowhere . They were like , okay , we you know , it 's like a line of succession . It 's like , okay , we just lost the general . So you just got promoted . You 're directing now . Well , and Brenda Chapman 's been around forever . Like , there 's no one in the animation world who seems to dislike her . They all seem to know her name and they all seem to be like , " Oh , she was great " . And she worked on Prince of Egypt and she worked on this and Beauty and the Beast and she 's been around forever . She 's , she knows her shit . So it 's not like she ended up getting this far in a movie at Pixar by some sort of an accident or oversight . It 's like , no , she was going to make this movie . That 's what 's going to happen now . But at the time that switch happened , I found myself , one way or another -- I think someone I know in Facebook had linked to some post , but there 's a blog , there 's a bunch of blogs for like animation nerds , like people who are animators and like blogs for news about the animation industry and shit like that .