And speaking of comic books and graphic novels and novellas , uh , there 's a couple of tie - in products for Project London as well . There is the graphic novel and a novella that were released was this last year ? Am I correct in saying that ? Well , I think it 's just about a year and a half , almost two years . Um , and we 're really proud of those items and people who are associated with the project , uh , Caleb Wheeler , Branson Anderson . Uh um uh uh , gosh , you know , I remember Branson , uh , on set , has his sketchbook with him , and he 's noodling around ideas of what 's happening that day and making characters in this , this , uh , idea gel . And , uh , probably a year later , after we were in post-production , I asked Branson , you know , would you be interested in doing a graphic novel , and he jumped on it , and here we are . Uh , Caleb , is a film student and , uh , writer , and , uh , his dad 's a friend of mine , uh , and his dad was talking to me one day , and he -- I think he 's got -- he told me he 's got like , 60 or 70 manuscripts on the shelf . And I thought , uh , whoa , you know kids ! And I , his dad , you know , we 're on a wavelength . And I could ask him , can he tell a story ? Right . And he could . And I connected him with Ian , and we did a few chapters as a test , and it passed muster . And we now have the story of how the Malardians showed up on planet Earth , during World War II , and Project London . Excellent . And you sent me the PDF , I believe , of the graphic novel and the novella as well , back when it came out a year and a half ago , and I think I have a review on my site , so I 'll -- I 'll link back -- that back to that as well . Uh , if folks wanted to get a hold of those , how would they go about doing that ? The best way to get a hold of the Project Manhattan or the graphic novel is to just visit , uh , the official movie website , projectlondonmovie.com , click on the books link , and you can preview them there , and you can find all of the links to purchase . Excellent . And Branson not only created the graphic novel , but I mean , he acted in the film as well . We should -- we should mention that too . So you 've got actors , you 've got artists , you 've got graphic novelists , you 've got computer specialists . Which one of you sings ? No . No . So we ca 'nt Project London Chorus at the end of this podcast . That 's not going to be happening , right ? Yeah , if we have had West over here for this interview -- West was our soundtrack producer and , uh , uh , did some amazing work . And when you get a chance to see the movie , Ben , um , it 'll rip your face off . I heard -- I 've heard it will rip my face off , and I am chomping at the bit to see this . I can not wait for this movie to come out . I mean , first there was this , and then The Hobbit kind of bumped in , but The Hobbit is going to be over soon , and then I 'm going back to Project London and I 'm serious , I really can not wait to see this film . I 've been following it for so long and to actually see this thing , it 's just going to be amazing , ca n't wait . Um , so once you 're done with a Kickstarter and everything is set , you 're -- you 're going to shop it around to a couple festivals , you said . How else are you going to spread the word ? I mean , you have a pretty decent present presence online , but what else are you guys going to do ? Do you have any other plans ? Yeah , we do have conventions . We 've got 6 to 8 conventions lined up already . Wow . Um , including , uh , GenCon , Indiana . And , um , that event , I think , could be as big as we can make it , but , um , it does n't take much , really , to contact conventions and ship out a screener to them . It 's not like we have to pay for airfare for everyone to go out and just start grassroots spreading the word . Um , I do n't know . Personally , I 'm just so hungry for good sci - fi . Yeah . I know people are just going to eat this up . Now , if I happen to be a guest at a convention in February , is that too early to set something up ? I hope not . Yeah , I hope not . If you 've got some ideas , we 'd love to hear them . I 'll have to get back in touch . Sorry , but I did n't mean to step on it . Um , this this whole thing has been a journey of discovery all along the way . And we talk about , you know , marketing plans and how can we make more noise . You know , we 're figuring it out every day . What can we do ? And then we do it . And that 's the way it 's been . Well , excellent . Um , I do happen to have a convention I 'll be going to in February , uh , so I love to set that up . And I 'm also going to be -- I do n't know if you guys have , uh , thought about Pax East at all , um , but , uh , that that that 's also a possibility . Yeah , yeah . You know , I 've been so myopic around the idea that it 's Kickstarter packaged and done . In fact , once it was launched , that 's all that 's had my attention . Mhm , um , but as soon as we get a little further along with that , we 'll , uh , we 'll start looking at , you know , 2013 and booking then . Excellent . Very cool . And then Project London 2 . Now what personally -- what do you guys have coming down the pipeline ? Because I -- I imagine as this thing is wrapping up , you 're either going to take a really long vacation or you 're going to think about your next project . So what do you guys have coming up ? Oh , geez . Well , I 'm certainly focused on Geekseekers right now . Yeah . And um , premiering that , we want to line up a few episodes so that they can go out the door instead of releasing one and going , oh , uh , and , uh , Chop Socky Boom as well , uh , just wrapped on Gamers 3 . Mhm . Um , that 's that 's another big exciting thing . And I also have a few projects of my own that I 'm developing . I 've got two short films in the future that I would love to see happen someday . I 'm just -- I 've been mostly doing freelance and stuff . Um , kind of trying to work on , on smaller stuff just kind of for the contrast . Sure . Um , but , uh , because every project is kind of throwing it at the wall , seeing what sticks , um , kind of a learning experience . Um , I 've learned so much from Project London , but , um , it 's fun to try to implement that now , like , just kind of short stuff . You know , 2013 is going to be the year of Project London . And that 's that 's where my energy is going to be . And while that 's happening , I 'm -- I 'm going to be looking out for the next thing . I do n't know what I want to be when I grow up . And just might find it in 2013 . I think that yeah , yeah . I have a feature . Yeah , yeah , I was just going to say Jen has a feature .