Cleveland is a culturally diverse city on the shores of Lake Erie , one of the Great Lakes , in Cuyahoga County , Ohio , USA . Recreational , cultural and educational opportunities are abundant throughout Northeast Ohio . You 'll find world - class museums and cultural events , professional sports and amusement parks , and the most golf courses per capita in the United States . Places Rated Almanac ranks the area second in recreational options out of 354 US metro areas . Plus , this region ranks fifth in the nation in number of major cultural resources per one million residents . Understand Cleveland from lakefront . Cleveland is the urban center of Northeast Ohio , the 15th largest combined metropolitan area in the United States . Throughout the twentieth century , the City of Cleveland proper was ranked as one of the 10 largest cities in the U.S. ( from 1890 until 1970 per US Census Bureau statistics ) . Like most U.S. cities , Cleveland proper began to lose population to suburban areas in the 1960s and 1970s . However , in the mid-1980s , Cleveland earned the nickname the " Comeback City " as the urban core experienced a dramatic revitalization process that continues today . As its " comeback " has continued , the official moniker is now the New American City as Cleveland has rightfully earned the reputation as a model of effective public - private partnership for urban planning . Despite the common perception that Cleveland is an industrial town , just beyond the automotive and steel plants , a clean and beautiful downtown rises at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River on the southern shore of Lake Erie ( often marvelled over by visitors who are surprised you ca n't see the other side , i.e. , Canada ) . Like other cities in the so - called " rust belt “ , Cleveland has endured growing pains as it makes its transition from a manufacturing - based economy . While Cleveland continues to play a leading role in building the U.S. industrial base , it has also developed economic prowess in the fields of health care , law , finance , insurance , real estate development , and professional services . Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum Another thing non-locals do n't often realize is that Cleveland 's long history of industrial wealth has left it chock full of cultural riches as well as the beginnings of a " sustainable city " movement . Serving as a global model for urban rebirth , Cleveland has been named one of the top 10 international visitor hotspots by Travel and Leisure magazine . For decades , the city has boasted of : a " Big Five " orchestra ( The Cleveland Orchestra ) , the second largest performing arts center in the U.S. ( Playhouse Square Center ) , a world - renowned art museum ( The Cleveland Museum of Art ) , the nation 's first health museum ( HealthSpace Cleveland ) , R&D hub of the aerospace and aviation industry ( the NASA Glenn Research & Visitors Center ) and a number of other first - rate attractions ( too many to mention here - read on ) . During its " comeback " years , Cleveland has added : the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum , the Great Lakes Science Center with Omnimax theatre , and four new sports facilities in the downtown area - Progressive Field ( Still known as " The Jake " after a recent corporate name change ) for the Major League Baseball Indians , QuickenLoans Arena ( " The Q " ) for the NBA Cavaliers , Cleveland Browns Stadium for the NFL Browns and the Wolstein Center for the Cleveland State University Vikings basketball team .