To Feel Happier , We Have to Resolve to the Life We Evolved to Live By Arash Javanbakht #science #health #advice #food #research #history When humans had to hunt for food , they had to move more . Sedentary lifestyles have made humans far less active than they need to be . “ Hunting Wooly Mammoth ” by http://cloudinary.com is licensed under CC BY - SA 4.0 When we have to give a talk to a group of people , we feel anxious and experience the bodily fear responses that do not make sense now : The system is not meant to function in this safe context . As a psychiatrist specialized in anxiety and trauma , I often tell my patients and students that to understand how fear works in us , we have to see it in the context where it evolved . Ten thousand years ago , if another human frowned at us , chances were high one of us would be dead in a couple minutes . In the tribal life of our ancestors , if other tribe members did not like you , you would be dead , or exiled and dead . Biological evolution is very slow , but civilization , culture , society and technology evolve relatively fast . It takes around a million years for evolutionary change to happen in a species , and people have been around for about 200,000 years . Each of us , however , sees drastic changes in our lifestyle and environment over a matter of a few years . Let ’s compare the life for which this body and brain has evolved with the life we live , from my perspective as a scientist and a physician . What we eat We evolved in a context of scarcity , and had to walk or run for miles and scavenge to find food ; we had to work for it . When we ate , we did not know when the next time would be . When we had it , we were better off eating the high - calorie food that increased our chance of survival when hungry ( greasy food feels appealing ) . Food was not quick to digest , stomachs also had to work hard for it : meat , fruits , vegetables , seeds and nuts . None of these contained “ easy ” sugary calories . The body that was prone to starvation , evolved to eat it all when available , and store it , and be stingy in its use . But now , food is just a few feet away , and we can easily consume thousands of calories in one serving . Fatty food , which required days and miles of hunting and scavenging to acquire , is now right there in the fridge or at the McDonald 's . It is like giving full fridge privileges to your Labrador . Easy calories like soda and candies provide a very large amount of energy in a very short amount of time and confuse the whole system . We end up fat and fatigued . How we move Our ancestors had to be active to survive in the wild . They had to walk miles a day , and were frequently involved in high intensity physical activity : moving heavy objects , climbing , fighting , chasing a prey or fleeing predators . This body did not evolve to sit at a desk eight hours a day , and then lie on a couch for the rest of the day munching on high calorie food , looking at a small or large screen . A contemporary American may only walk a few dozen steps to the car , drive to work , ride the elevator to the office , walk a few dozen steps back to the car , get drive - thru food , then be back on the couch . Suboptimal muscle use leads to weaker joint support , and weird postures cause pain . Pain leads to reduced activity , more obesity and weaker muscles ; then comes opioid epidemic , overuse of pain medications , and back surgeries for all ! [ ... ] What can we do to feel better ? When we adopt a pet , we learn about their normal environment , activity level and nutrition . Is n’t it interesting that we do not apply that to the animal we live in ? To feel normal , we should live normal , and a human ’s normal life is that for which she or he has evolved . So I believe the first step is to understand ourselves , and why we do what we do , and desire what we desire . When we crave fatty food , or can not stop eating , that is because the human animal had to do so to survive . Such understanding brings empathy , reduces judgment and helps us get creative . Keep away the high - calorie sugary food . I tell my patients : do not buy it , or if you do , buy in small amounts . Try to eat what you were evolved to eat . Know the body is lazy , because it wants to save precious energy . The drag of going to the gym may be because of that . Also know that this body would be much happier when it is regularly , and highly active . We know that exercise is not only helpful for cardiovascular and bodily health , but also reduces anxiety . I ask all my patients to commit to some level of exercise , as part of their treatment plan . And it does not have to be treadmill or gym . Whatever rocks your boat : yoga , boxing , walking , running up the stairs at work , doing 20 push - ups , 20 sit - ups and 20 squats a day , or dancing to a TV ad ; whatever makes your heart pound faster . Other bonuses come with exercise : getting sun exposure or to know your neighbor when walking the dog , making new friends ( or a date ) at the gym , feeling better about yourself , and being more attractive to yourself and others . All these factors lift your mood . Do not feel disappointed if you did not lose weight , it ’s not the only goal . Other benefits are abundant and even more important : increased strength and energy , cardiovascular and joint health , improved mood , etc. When it comes to sleep , changing behavior works . Here are some tips for better sleep : avoid late caffeine , bright screens ( including your phone – Facebook can wait ) , and use your bed only for sleep and sex . Finally , you may need a regular dose of healthy and safe exposure to real - life excitement , and a little bit of fear . Bottom line : If we treated our body the way responsible dog owners treated their dog , we would live a much happier life .