1 The Americas , Europe , and Africa Before 1492 1.1 The Americas Learning Objectives By the end of this section , you will be able to : Locate on a map the major American civilizations before the arrival of the Spanish Discuss the cultural achievements of these civilizations Discuss the differences and similarities between lifestyles , religious practices , and customs among the native peoples Figure 1.2 ( credit : modification of work by Architect of the Capitol ) Some scholars believe that between nine and fifteen thousand years ago , a land bridge existed between Asia and North America that we now call Beringia . The first inhabitants of what would be named the Americas migrated across this bridge in search of food . When the glaciers melted , water engulfed Beringia , and the Bering Strait was formed . Later settlers came by boat across the narrow strait . ( The fact that Asians and American Indians share genetic markers on a Y chromosome lends credibility to this migration theory . ) Continually moving southward , the settlers eventually populated both North and South America , creating unique cultures that ranged from the highly complex and urban Aztec civilization in what is now Mexico City to the woodland tribes of eastern North America . Recent research along the west coast of South America suggests that migrant populations may have traveled down this coast by water as well as by land . Researchers believe that about ten thousand years ago , humans also began the domestication of plants and animals , adding agriculture as a means of sustenance to hunting and gathering techniques . With this agricultural revolution , and the more abundant and reliable food supplies it brought , populations grew and people were able to develop a more settled way of life , building permanent settlements . Nowhere in the Americas was this more obvious than in Mesoamerica ( Figure 1.3 ) . Figure 1.3 This map shows the extent of the major civilizations of the Western Hemisphere . In South America , early civilizations developed along the coast because the high Andes and the inhospitable Amazon Basin made the interior of the continent less favorable for settlement . THE FIRST AMERICANS : THE OLMEC Mesoamerica is the geographic area stretching from north of Panama up to the desert of central Mexico . Although marked by great topographic , linguistic , and cultural diversity , this region cradled a number of civilizations with similar characteristics . Mesoamericans were polytheistic ; their gods possessed both male and female traits and demanded blood sacrifices of enemies taken in battle or ritual bloodletting . Corn , or maize , domesticated by 5000 BCE , formed the basis of their diet . They developed a mathematical system , built huge edifices , and devised a calendar that accurately predicted eclipses and solstices and that priest - astronomers used to direct the planting and harvesting of crops . Most important for our knowledge of these peoples , they created the only known written language in the Western Hemisphere ; researchers have made much progress in interpreting the inscriptions on their temples and pyramids . Though the area had no overarching political structure , trade over long distances helped diffuse culture . Weapons made of obsidian , jewelry crafted from jade , feathers woven into clothing and ornaments , and cacao beans that were whipped into a chocolate drink formed the basis of commerce . The mother of Mesoamerican cultures was the Olmec civilization . Flourishing along the hot Gulf Coast of Mexico from about 1200 to about 400 BCE , the Olmec produced a number of major works of art , architecture , pottery , and sculpture . Most recognizable are their giant head sculptures ( Figure 1.4 ) and the pyramid in La Venta . The Olmec built aqueducts to transport water into their cities and irrigate their fields . They grew maize , squash , beans , and tomatoes . They also bred small domesticated dogs which , along with fish , provided their protein . Although no one knows what happened to the Olmec after about 400 BCE , in part because the jungle reclaimed many of their cities , their culture was the base upon which the Maya and the Aztec built . It was the Olmec who worshipped a rain god , a maize god , and the feathered serpent so important in the future pantheons of the Aztecs ( who called him Quetzalcoatl ) and the Maya ( to whom he was Kukulkan ) . The Olmec also developed a system of trade throughout Mesoamerica , giving rise to an elite class . Figure 1.4 The Olmec carved heads from giant boulders that ranged from four to eleven feet in height and could weigh up to fifty tons . All these figures have flat noses , slightly crossed eyes , and large lips . These physical features can be seen today in some of the peoples indigenous to the area . THE MAYA After the decline of the Olmec , a city rose in the fertile central highlands of Mesoamerica . One of the largest population centers in pre-Columbian America and home to more than 100,000 people at its height in about 500 CE , Teotihuacan was located about thirty miles northeast of modern Mexico City . The ethnicity of this settlement ’s inhabitants is debated ; some scholars believe it was a multiethnic city . Large - scale agriculture and the resultant abundance of food allowed time for people to develop special trades and skills other than farming . Builders constructed over twenty - two hundred apartment compounds for multiple families , as well as more than a hundred temples . Among these were the Pyramid of the Sun ( which is two hundred feet high ) and the Pyramid of the Moon ( one hundred and fifty feet high ) . Near the Temple of the Feathered Serpent , graves have been uncovered that suggest humans were sacrificed for religious purposes . The city was also the center for trade , which extended to settlements on Mesoamerica ’s Gulf Coast . The Maya were one Mesoamerican culture that had strong ties to Teotihuacan . The Maya ’s architectural and mathematical contributions were significant . Flourishing from roughly 2000 BCE to 900 CE in what is now Mexico , Belize , Honduras , and Guatemala , the Maya perfected the calendar and written language the Olmec had begun . They devised a written mathematical system to record crop yields and the size of the population , and to assist in trade . Surrounded by farms relying on primitive agriculture , they built the city - states of Copan , Tikal , and Chichen Itza along their major trade routes , as well as temples , statues of gods , pyramids , and astronomical observatories ( Figure 1.5 ) . However , because of poor soil and a drought that lasted nearly two centuries , their civilization declined by about 900 CE and they abandoned their large population centers . Figure 1.5 El Castillo , located at Chichen Itza in the eastern Yucatán peninsula , served as a temple for the god Kukulkan . Each side contains ninety - one steps to the top . When counting the top platform , the total number of stairs is three hundred and sixty - five , the number of days in a year . ( credit : Ken Thomas ) The Spanish found little organized resistance among the weakened Maya upon their arrival in the 1520s . However , they did find Mayan history , in the form of glyphs , or pictures representing words , recorded in folding books called codices ( the singular is codex ) . In 1562 , Bishop Diego de Landa , who feared the converted natives had reverted to their traditional religious practices , collected and burned every codex he could find . Today only a few survive . Key Terms Beringia an ancient land bridge linking Asia and North America Review Questions 1. Which of the following Indian peoples built homes in cliff dwellings that still exist ? A. Anasazi B. Cherokee C. Aztec D. Inca 2. Which culture developed the first writing system in the Western Hemisphere ? A. Inca B. Maya C. Olmec D. Pueblo