Sam has been , has taken such an interest in this retirement bit that it — it really surprises me . Well she 's begun to listen . Yes she has . You know . She has . Uh , she used to go over and read a book or something . Yeah , or turn a deaf ear . That was for sure . But uh , once you understand it , you know , you , you 're interested in getting right in , and going after it . Yeah . I really ought a call , at least Reg Barr , and ask if uh , he 's still speaking to me . Well now , he was the one that was up on the left , up there . Yeah . Yeah . Yes . Well , he came over to you all smiles , I noticed . Yes . Well , we 've known each other for thirty - some years , why would n't he ? But a- anyway , um , I was so glad that he opened up on this disclosure bit . Because it was Burns that 's been objecting to our having it . Oh ? And I knew this . So when he opened up on that , and she followed through , and told about her husband , you know ? Not necessarily that she would approve of it , but at least she was n't disapproving . Yeah . Of it . Yeah . And uh , course Duvall might – And I – I can not get over this . That man . I really can not . And you know , he must have been thinking , when he said he was n't a political appointee , he must have been associating his relationship with Steitler . Oh . I really do believe that . Mhm . In his thinking . I do n't know how else he could have done it . That topples over . Um , but he did n't say that . Oh ? He said , I loved your hum- humor , uh , and I love you , but , I am not a political appointee . And his eyes were just snapping . And I said , Oh ? How did you get on the board ? Well he said , I got a letter from the governor , asking . Everybody on there is an app- political appointee , that was n't the point . The point was , I could have mentioned what was in the paper about him , that he was related and , you know , had business with Steitler , and I just said , and there 's Doctor Duvall , you know ? And then I went to Rotus , who 's a seasoned politician , if there ever was one . Yeah . He just would flare . And I said , well , I – alright . I said , I 'll apologize next time , and I 'm gon na make hay out of it , do n't you worry . I wan na know how you birds got on that board , if you 're not political appointees . Mm . Oh my . Can I grow some basil ? From seed ? Yes , that 's how I 've – I do n't have any this year , but I 've grown it other years . Well – There 's no proble- . It will not take any frost . Soon as the b- Yeah I – A little bit of frost , it 's gone . I l- I learned that one time the – I learned it just went down . The hard way . Hm ? Uh-huh . Yes ? Well , I think it was Barbara that has some seeds . Just – No problem . It comes right up . Yeah . Yeah . I – Is n't that what you gave the neighbor one time ? You gave him some kind of herb . Did I give him some ? I gave him a red pepper . I think you – I think you gave him some herb of some kind . I may have given – given him some basil , yes . Yeah . I do n't have any this year , I forgot to plant it . I have oregano . Yeah . A good stand of it , if you want any . Yeah . I have a lot of dried or- oregano . Mm . Is your cigarette out , everybody 's ? Yeah , it 's out . You smoked it down into the cork , did n't you ? Pardon ? You smoked it down into the cork . Well , yeah , you do n't like that , do you , but – No , it chokes me to death . It 's – it 's there , might as well smoke it . Oh . No good . No good .