1 Introduction Tenured and tenure - track university faculty play a special role in determining the speed and direction of scientific progress , both directly through their research and indirectly through their training of new researchers . Past studies establish that each of these efforts is strongly and positively influenced through various forms of faculty diversity , including ethnic , racial , and gender diversity . As an example , research shows that greater diversity within a community or group can lead to improved critical thinking [ 1 ] and more creative solutions to complex tasks [ 2 , 3 ] by pairing together individuals with unique skillsets and perspectives that complement and often augment the abilities of their peers . Additionally , diversity has been shown to produce more supportive social climates and effective learning environments [ 4 ] , which can facilitate the mentoring of young scientists . Despite these positive effects , however , quantifying the impact of diversity in science remains exceedingly difficult , due in large part to a lack of comprehensive data about the scientific workforce . Measuring the composition and dynamics of a scientific workforce , particularly in a rapidly expanding field like computer science , is a crucial first step toward understanding how scholarly research is conducted and how it might be enhanced . For many scientific fields , however , there is no central listing of all tenure - track faculty , making it difficult to define a rigorous sample frame for analysis . Further , rates of adoption of services like GoogleScholar and ResearchGate vary within , and across disciplines . For instance , gender representation in computing is an important issue with broad implications [ 5 ] , but without a full census of computing faculty , the degree of inequality and its possible sources are difficult to establish [ 6 ] . Some disciplines , like political science , are organized around a single professional society , whose membership roll approximates a full census [ 7 ] . Most fields , on the other hand , including computer science , lack a single all - encompassing organization and membership information is instead distributed across many disjoint lists , such as web - based faculty directories for individual departments . Because assembling such a full census is difficult , past studies have tended to avoid this task and have instead used samples of researchers [ 8 – 11 ] , usually specific to a particular field [ 12 – 16 ] , and often focused on the scientific elite [ 17 , 18 ] . Although useful , such samples are not representative of the scientific workforce as a whole and thus have limited generalizability . One of the largest census efforts to date assembled , by hand , a nearly complete record of three academic fields : computer science , history , and business [ 19 ] . This data set has shed considerable light on dramatic inequalities in faculty training , placement , and scholarly productivity [ 6 , 19 , 20 ] . But , this data set is only a single snapshot of an evolving and expanding system and hence offers few insights into the changing composition and diversity trends within these academic fields . In some fields , yearly data on faculty numbers and composition are available in aggregate . In computer science , the Computing Research Association ( CRA ) documents trends in the employment of PhD recipients through the annual Taulbee survey of computing departments in North America ( cra.org/resources/taulbee-survey ) . Such surveys can provide valuable insight into trends and summary statistics on the scientific workforce but suffer from two key weaknesses . First , surveys are subject to variable response rates and the misinterpretation of questions or sample frames , which can inject bias into fine - grained analyses [ 21 , 22 ] . Second , aggregate information provides only a high - level view of a field , which can make it difficult to investigate causality [ 23 ] . For example , differences in recruitment and retention strategies across departments will be washed out by averaging , thereby masking any insights into the efficacy of individual strategies and policies . Here , we present a novel system , based on a topical web crawler , that can quickly and automatically assemble a full census of an academic field using digital data available on the public World Wide Web . This system is efficient and accurate , and it can be adapted to any academic discipline and used for continuous collection . The system is capable of collecting census data for an entire academic field in just a few hours using off - the - shelf computing hardware , a vast improvement over the roughly 1600 hours required to do this task by hand [ 19 ] . By assembling an accurate census of an entire field from online information alone , this system will facilitate new research on the composition of academic fields by providing access to complete faculty listings , without having to rely on surveys or professional societies . This system can also be used longitudinally to study how the workforce ’s composition changes over time , which is particularly valuable for evaluating the effectiveness of policies meant to broaden participation or improve retention of faculty . Finally , applied to many academic fields in parallel , the system can elucidate scientists ’ movement between different disciplines and relate those labor flows to scientific advances . In short , many important research questions will benefit from the availability of accurate and frequently - recollected census data . Our study is organized as follows . We begin by detailing the design and implementation of our web crawler framework . Next , we present the results of our work in two sections . The first demonstrates the validity and utility of the crawler by collecting census data for the field of computer science and comparing it to a hand - curated census , collected in 2011 [ 19 ] . The second provides an example of the type of research enabled by our system and uses the 2011 and 2017 censuses to investigate the “ leaky pipeline ” problem in faculty retention .