Lantern Festival in Taipei lights up the night Monday , March 5 , 2007 Taipei , Taiwan — The Taipei City Lantern Festival was off to a bright start on Saturday Night as hundreds of thousands of people crowded onto the Chiang Kai Shek Memorial near downtown Taipei to witness city mayor Hau Lung - bin and other dignitaries ceremoniously flip the switch to light hundreds of colorful lantern scenes in and around the 240,000 square meter memorial park . The centerpiece of this rock concert - like performance is a 15 meter high rotating pig equipped with a fog machine , laser light show and theme music . The theme of this year s lantern festival revolves around the 12 year Chinese zodiac cycle s year of the pig . Its round shape symbolizes wealth and good fortune and is believed to bring good luck . Started in 1990 , the Taipei lantern festival continues a 2000 year old tradition of light related festivals marking the end of the Chinese New Year celebrations . This particular event grows in popularity every year . Last Year over 4 million visitors attended the event and this year the city expects about 6 million visitors according to the event website . Colorful lantern scenes not only fill the central square but also the surrounding 2 km circumference of the memorial . Each section has a theme . One side of the memorial is scenes made by student groups while other areas represent the counties of Taiwan . There is even a section of lanterns sponsored by foreign countries . The Malaysia Tourism board was quite prominent at the main entrance to the grounds . As with all new year celebrations in Taiwan , the lantern festival is crowded . People flock to see the lantern scenes and enjoy the festival atmosphere as they carry lanterns , given away by the city and bought from street vendors at the event . The many light toys such a swords , devil ears , and lanterns turn the milling crowd into a unique light show that can be observed by climbing the steps of the 70 meter memorial hall on the grounds . Local public transportation hubs are often swamped by the event . The station staff at Chiang Kai Shek Memorial Hall Station do an excellent job of crowd control but lines for the subway can still be hours long and very exhausting . A sudden rain storm on Sunday night ( March 4 ) caused a mass exodus of people to head for the station prompting lines that backed up into the street . The commuting crowds can be avoided however by walking from NTU Hospital Station or Shandao Station . Both of these stops are only about a 20 minute walk from the event and have no crowds at all . If you really want to avoid the crowds , definitely avoid the weekends . Wait until the fourth or fifth day of the festival when the crowds will have dwindled . I visited the festival on Saturday night , the opening night , and there was a sea of people in the square . I went back the next Tuesday night and there was almost no one there , just a few stray photographers taking advantage of the unimpeded views of the lanterns . The festival runs through March 11 this year .