Texas student Ahmed Mohamed inspires social movement Tuesday , September 22 , 2015 News of police response to a boy 's digital clock in Texas last week has inspired a global social movement in support of the youth . Ahmed Mohamed , a 14 - year - old boy from Irving , Texas , was arrested at his school by police after he brought a digital clock he had made to school . After news of the police response was reported , Mohamed received support online ranging from US President Barack Obama to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg . Yesterday Mohamed received VIP attention at Google headquarters in California at the Google Science Fair — and tomorrow he plans to meet international dignitaries at the United Nations headquarters in New York . US President Barack Obama tweet to student Ahmed Mohamed Image : Twitter / Barack Obama . Mohamed brought the digital clock he made to school on September 14 , and a teacher mistakenly thought it resembled a bomb . Police arrested and questioned the student . Images of the boy wearing a NASA T - shirt and handcuffed by the police were quickly posted and reposted online . The Deseret News observed that the hashtag on Twitter , #IStandWithAhmed , had become an international phenomenon . The Straits Times noted what began as individual messages to Mohamed had grown into a " support movement " . American academic and professor Marc Lamont Hill commented , " Hoping that the #istandwithahmed movement translates into a substantive national conversation on race , punishment , and incarceration . " The Twitter attention led to outreach from Google and Mohamed was invited to their Google Science Fair . Mohamed was a VIP guest at the Google Science Fair this weekend , and was able to meet finalists at the event held at Google 's headquarters located in Mountain View , California . Co-founder of Google , Sergey Brin , personally met with Mohamed during his visit to Google . On Wednesday , Mohamed and his father are to travel to the United Nations . His father Mohamed El - Hassan Mohamed said he was taking his entire family to the U.N. headquarters in New York , because international dignitaries wanted to meet with his son and express their support . Psychology major at University of Texas Arlington Amneh Jafari heard of the incident and wanted to issue her support to Mohamed . She chose the hastag #IStandWithAhmed and posted to Twitter . Jafari said she felt Mohamed had been subject to Islamophobia and her hashtag created greater awareness about this issue . The hashtag took on a life of its own , and was used in messages on Twitter over one million times by Thursday night . NASA tweeted support of Ahmed Mohamed via its account International Space Station Image : Twitter / NASA . US President Barack Obama tweeted using his @POTUS account : " Cool clock , Ahmed . Want to bring it to the White House ? We should inspire more kids like you to like science . It 's what makes America great . " Twitter gave Mohamed the option to come to their company for an internship . Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg tweeted to Mohamed and said the boy was welcome to come and tour the company . Executive director of the Dallas chapter of the Council on American - Islamic Relations Alia Salem said Mohamed wishes to use his newfound fame and attention to spotlight social causes including the treatment of Muslims in the United States . University of Texas Arlington Muslim Student Association president Sehar Memon said the large amount of positive feedback for Mohamed had helped make his situation much better . Memon also said she believed the social movement in reaction to Mohamed helped improve Muslim / non-Muslim . Both the Irving Independent School District and the Irving Police Department have asserted that the boy 's religion and name were not a factor in the manner in which they approached the situation .