The Charter of the United Nations sends a clear message to us all : put people first . The first words of the Charter , “ We the peoples ” , are a summons to place people at the centre of our work — every day , everywhere . People with anxieties and aspirations , people with heartbreaks and hopes and , above all , people with rights . Those rights are not a favour to be rewarded or withheld ; they are an endowment for simply being human . Throughout the first half of my mandate , I have had the good fortune to meet people around the world , not in gilded meeting rooms but where they live , work and dream . And I have listened . I have heard families in the South Pacific who fear their lives being swept away by rising seas ; young refugees in the Middle East yearning for a return to school and home ; Ebola survivors in North Kivu struggling to rebuild their lives ; women demanding equality and opportunity ; people of all beliefs and traditions who suffer simply because of who they are ; and so many others . We are living in a world of disquiet . A great many people fear getting trampled , thwarted , left behind . Machines take their jobs , traffickers take their dignity , demagogues take their rights , warlords take their lives , fossil fuels take their futures . And yet people believe in the spirit and ideas that bring us to this Hall . They believe in the United Nations . But do they believe in us ? Do they believe that , as leaders , we will put people first ? We the leaders must deliver for we the peoples . People have the right to live in peace . One year ago in this Hall , I spoke of winds of hope despite the chaos and confusion of our world ( see A/73/PV.6 ) . Since then , some of those currents have continued to move in promising directions . Against the expectations of many , elections unfolded peacefully in Madagascar , the Maldives and the Democratic Republic of the Congo , to name just a few places . Greece and the Republic of North Macedonia resolved their decades - long name dispute . Political dialogue in the Sudan and the peace process in the Central African Republic have brought renewed hope . A long - sought step forward has just been taken on the political path out of the tragedy in Syria , in line with Security Council resolution 2254 ( 2015 ) . As I announced yesterday , an agreement has been reached with all parties for a credible , balanced and inclusive Syrian - owned and Syrian - led constitutional committee . My Special Envoy just left Damascus after finalizing the last details with the Government and the opposition . The United Nations looks forward to convening the committee in Geneva in the coming weeks . However , across the global landscape , we see conflicts persisting , terrorism spreading and the risk of a new arms race growing . Outside interferences , often in violation of Security Council resolutions , make peace processes more difficult . Many situations remain unresolved , from Yemen and Libya to Afghanistan and beyond . A succession of unilateral actions threatens to thwart a two - State solution between Israel and Palestine . In Venezuela , 4 million people have fled the country — one of the largest displacements in the world . Tensions are heightened in South Asia , where differences need to be addressed through dialogue . Above all , we are facing the alarming possibility of armed conflict in the Gulf , the consequences of which the world can not afford . The recent attack on Saudi Arabia ’s oil facilities was completely unacceptable . In a context where a minor miscalculation can lead to a major confrontation , we must do everything possible to push for reason and restraint . I hope for a future in which all the countries of the region can live in a state of mutual respect and cooperation , without interference in each other ’s affairs . I hope equally that it will still be possible to preserve the progress on nuclear non-proliferation represented by the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action . From the first day , I have emphasized prevention , mediation and a surge in diplomacy for peace in order to address the crises that we face . Consider the lives that we can save by strengthening our investments to sustain peace around the world . Across some of the most troubled corners of the world , some 100,000 United Nations peacekeepers protect civilians and promote peace . Through the Action for Peacekeeping initiative , we are strengthening our effectiveness and efficiency and we are renewing partnerships with troop - and police - contributing countries , host countries and regional organizations , such as the African Union and the European Union . I am also proud of the work of our humanitarian workers , easing suffering around the world . Fully half of all international relief aid is channelled through the United Nations , ensuring that millions receive protection , food , medicine , shelter , water and other life - saving forms of assistance . This year alone , in brutal attacks and other circumstances , we have lost at least 80 peacekeepers , humanitarian workers and others , all of whom gave their lives serving the United Nations and trying to better the lives of others . I honour their service and their sacrifice . We have bolstered our counter-terrorism architecture and defined new strategies to tackle violent extremism and to address root causes , while respecting human rights . I have put forward a new disarmament agenda to advance global peace . In the near term , the New START Treaty must be extended . We must work to address the heightened threat posed by ballistic missiles and ensure a successful 2020 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons . The situation of the Korean peninsula remains uncertain . I fully support the efforts towards a new summit between the President of the United States and the leader of the Democratic People ’s Republic of Korea . At this time of transition and dysfunction in global power relations , there is a new risk looming on the horizon that may not yet be large but it is real . I fear the possibility of a great fracture — the world splitting in two , with the two largest economies on Earth creating two separate and competing worlds , each with their own dominant currency , trade and financial rules , their own Internet and artificial intelligence capacities and their own zero - sum geopolitical and military strategies . We must do everything possible to avert the great fracture and maintain a universal system — a universal economy with universal respect for international law , a multipolar world with strong multilateral institutions .