Wikinews interviews Christopher Hill , U.S. Republican Party presidential candidate Interview What qualifications do you have that will assist you in executing the duties of president ? My Presidential qualifications are rooted in my service as an Officer in the United States Air Force . I took the Oath to our Constitution at 22 years old . I understood it was an Oath to ALL of our people . Politicians profess an Oath to this nation but once in office pursue their party agenda and reward their voters . As President , I will serve ALL of the people in America , guided by the Constitution . Why run for president ? Why not run for a lower office that you would be more likely to win and effect change ? When I was a young man in Air Force ROTC I was chosen to attend a unique Pilot Training Program called Euro- NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training . The Air Force only selected 180 Officers a year from the Academy , Squadron Officer School and ROTC to attend . I volunteered for that program because I knew I wanted to be a Fighter Pilot and at the " Top of the Spear . " In those days it was all or nothing . If you graduated you were assigned a fighter , if you were not quite fighter pilot material you had no response to fly another aircraft , you were washed out . Congress has proven itself ineffective as a body . To make a difference in America you must have the " Bully Pulpit " and speak to the People . The President has that pulpit . All or nothing . I never wanted to make politics a career . Why did you choose to run in the Republican Party ? My ties to the Republican party date back to 1979 , when I volunteered for Ronald Reagan and his campaign in New Hampshire . In those days I believed there was a difference in the parties . Today , like many Americans , I am skeptical . I understand third party candidates have no success . I hope to lead the Republican party in a new direction for working class Americans . How do you plan to get into the Republican debates and make an impact on polls ? In order to be invited to the debates , we must raise money and poll nationally . This is an effort that is underway . Recently we were listed in New Hampshire and nationally with Politics1 . If you do not receive the Republican nomination , would you consider running as a third party candidate ? No , I will back the nominee of the Republican party in 2016 . After that , I may reconsider . Other than yourself , which candidates have you supported for president in previous campaigns ? Reagan in 80 and 84 , [ George H. W. ] Bush in 88 and 92 , [ Phil ] Gramm in 96 , [ George W. ] Bush in 2000 and , Romney in 08 . What are your thoughts on the job Barack Obama has done as president ? Specifically , what would you have done differently ? President Obama has an agenda that represents the far left wing of his party . His use of the Presidency to further this agenda has in many ways been unconstitutional . Specifically , altering law once it is passed to accommodate his voting blocs . His direction to Eric Holder to enforce some laws and not others is another example . Hill at the Lesser - known candidates forum in 2011 If elected , what would constitute a successful presidency for you ? Achieving four goals : Term Limits for Congress and the Courts returning government to the People . Implementing a Tax System that allows working Americans making under $ 250,000 to keep all of their money . Closing Loopholes and putting in place a system that is transparent and works . Passing a Living Wage program lifting people out of poverty . Returning America to a state of Peace and Security . What individuals would you like to see in a Hill administration ? I would like to bring People from the heartland of America that make this nation work . We have had too many decades of Ivy League elites and Professors immersed in theory . Hill ( right ) with fellow 2012 presidential candidate Buddy Roemer . Anything else you would like to add ? A final thought . America is a nation that will endure . I believe it is our responsibility to pass on the same opportunities to future generations that were promised to us . As President , I intend to keep that promise !