Eau Gallie , Fla. General Delivery July 9 , 1951 . Dear Jean : Thanks for the money . I am fixing up my new home here . It is a one - room house , but a large room , and set in two blocks of grounds with an artesian well . I have to do some phoneering , but I find that I like it . I am the happiest I have been in the last ten years , irregardles of whether Scribners likes the novel or not . I am up every morning at five oclock chopping down weeds and planting flowers and things . That is why I have been so long getting to my machine to write letters . I go to bed happily tired and swear that I will write you a letter first thing in the morning . But the birds , which I feed and who have begun to collect here already in large numbers , wake me up clamoring for their breakfast , and I dash out and place stale bread , etc. and watch the many colors and many behaviors of my feathered friends . Less than an hour ago , a male cardinal lit on the porch no more than five feet from me and complained that there was no more food outside , so I hurried to put some out . Then just as I opened up the machine , a great conclave of birds , led by two crows , screamed to me that some enemy was raiding a mocking - bird nest in a big oak tree , and I rushed over to find a lean and desperate cat climbing the tree , and chunked him clear off the place . Spot , and her daughter , Shag , love it here . They show it in many ways . They go hunting , and so far , have scared up a cat , two rabbits and an armadilla . It seems that t ey are plentiful around here . From all that hoeing and what not , I am losing weight , God be praised ! This day , I take out my notes and go back to work with new vigor and a clean - swept mind . Two short pieces and back to the attempt at drama . I belidve that I can do it , and I 'm giving it a very serious try this time . You will have assorted scripts in your hand very shortly . Now , you p rhaps questi n why I am putting so much into this place where I now live . I have a chance to buy it . In this little house I wrote MULES AND MEN . Since that time , it has come to be in a White residential neighborhood . Eau Gallie has grown with the Jet Base , and not far away , near Cocoa , the Guided Missile Base , and many people stationed here are buying and building . Mr. W. Lansing Gleason , my landlord , is the mayor . He must go slow about selling it to me , waiting on public reaction . It is beginning to be favorable to me . Several of my neighbors have stopped in the last week and remarked on the improvements I have made . It looked like a jungle three weeks ago , and it took a strong heart and an eye on the future for me to move in when I arrived . The place had run down so badly . In what was meant to be a compliment , I have been told twice , " You do n't live like the majority of your people . You like things clean and orderly around you . " The manager of the local dairy , seeing me setting out flowers as I cleared , surprised me with a load of compost as a present Saturday . The grounds have great possibilities , and I really would love to own it . I still must remove tons of junk , old tin cans and bottles from the premises . Somehow , this one spot on earth feels like home to me . I have always intended to come back here . That is why I am doing so much to make a go of it . No house in a block of me four ways . No loud radios and record - playing to irritate me , and great oaks and palms around the place . I do hope that other person that Burroughs Mitchell had reading my script was not Roy Ottley . You can see why I would not want a Negro writer to be handling it . Since none of the others have thought to do anything with the hair - traightening business , it might prove a temptation to play my work down to Burroughs , then do something on it himself . Please check on that for me . The Saturday Evening Post photographer has been here and took a lot of pictures . He caught me in my dungarees working outdoors , and naturally insisted on photographing me like that . He told me that Ben Hibbs likes the article very much and it will be in an early issue . I gather from reading the magazine that the SEP favors Taft , and so it probably falls right in with the plan . They never se m to miss a chance recently to mention him favorably . As soon as I can get some things in your hands to sell , I shall try to raise the cash for my newspaper devoted to those in domestic service . I really believe that the idea is sound and can makke money . [ ... ] I paid up my sick and accident insurance for a year , $ 67.70 , and spent so much getting the house wired and made more livable in other ways around the place , that I am almost broke already again . Bought an ice - box , and furniture too , so now , as badly as I hate to draw it , I need some cash to live on . For groceries and gas . And a pair of black slacks so that I can go downtown without messing up another was dress which takes up my time to launder . My best to you and yours , and pray that we make a lot of money this year , so that when / if I am told that I can buy this place , I can do it and build a comfortable little new house on it . Love and faithful feelings , Zora