Good morning ! So remember how yesterday when I showed you the thingy thing there were like very high waves in the lagoon ? Well , today is like the exact opposite . This is like the calmest water you might have seen . This is so beautiful . And I 'm drinking instant coffee , but the instant coffee is actually from Bremen . That 's crazy , right ? In South Africa I 'm drinking instant coffee that is from Bremen . Not the best representation of my city I guess , because it 's instant coffee . We are heading out here at 10:00 a.m. I think , and then on the way back we 're stopping at a winery for , I do n't know , for looking at it , and then we 're gon na head back . So firstly the Sauvignon Blanc which is for you , for you sir . So the Sauvignon Blanc , it 's naturally high - acidic grape , and then if you smell it you pick up grassy aromas , lots of passion fruits , gooseberry flavors in the palate . So this is a warmer climate Sauvignon Blanc , well balanced acidity , 2018 vintage , very crisp and fresh and it is unwooded . And then the Chardonnay - Pinot Noir , it is a blended wine of 60 % Chardonnay and 40 % Pinot Noir , so it 's more like a dry rosé style of wine with lots of strawberry flavors , hints of yellow apple , and it 's 2018 vintage , which is unwooded . It 's very fresh and crisp . Okay ? Is it a popular wine ? Chardonnay ? Yes , in South Africa Chardonnay and Pinot Noir , it 's a popular wine . Interesting . And then with the Chardonnay , Chardonnay is naturally high - acidic , but not so much aromatic on the nose , so you pick up lots of citrus fruits , limes , lemons on the palate , and this is 2017 vintage , also unwooded . So these are the type of wine that you can enjoy on their own and also with your light meals , because they are made to open now , drink now wines . Can I ask you , with your white wines , how – how long – when 's the best time to drink them ? Is it sooner ? Yes , yes , sooner . It 's open now drink now wines , as I said they are lifestyle wines , easy drinking , everyday drinking styles . But if you want to keep them , I would say 5 years in the cellar . Oh , you can ? Yes you can keep them in your cellar , and then the red wines , six years to seven years , not more than that . And then with the red wines from the Signature they only spent eight months in the French oak . So the reason behind that shorter period of time is for you to get more of the original flavors from the grapes , not so much of the secondary flavor since they are more level entry wines . So the Pinotage is a uniquely grown South African grape . It was discovered in the year of 1925 by a professor called Abraham Perold in the University of Stellenbosch . So it 's a high grade grape that is made from Pinot Noir and the Hermitage . You took a stem of both , cross-breeded them . The Hermitage is known as the Cinsault today . So the Pinotage is very aromatic , has lots of plum fruits , red fruit flavors . The tanins are full of high tanins , but they are quite soft . This is a 2017 vintage and then the Shiraz , it 's known for its biasing characteristics , that what you pick up on the palette on the nose to the palate , spicy peppery flavor , has lots of great fruits and this is 2017 vintage . And then the Cab , the Cabernet is known for its thick uh skin and it 's known for when it 's blended , it always acts as a backbone to the wine . So since this one had not much of the oak barrel you pick up the original black currant fruits , pencil shavings aromas , has lots of black cherries as well . This is the 2017 vintage . So this – So , so with th- with these people , it 's better to wait for these as well , even though they 're your everyday – Would it be better to like say – Yes , three years ' time , four years ' time , yes . Remember , while it gets better with age , so , these also . OK , any questions ? Thank you ! That 's good ! Yeah . Enjoy ! I will bring the cheese platter . Thank you ! So you heard it people : whatever she said . To make it a real wine tasting , we also got a cheese platter . Got some cheese ! I 'm just smelling the wine . So we just saw a wine tasting , and got to say it was really good . They gave us a little wine . I feel like my sunburn adds nicely to the effect . Wooh ! I actually spit it , all of it , in here . Actually no . No you did n't . Yeah , I drank all of it . But you see all of these glasses ? I drank all of them . No you actually drank a few sips – He 's lying , you drank – you drank most of them . I 've been called out ! No but this one , this one was really really good . What 's your recap ? Uh – My recap ? No which one 's your favorite wine ? Just say your favorite wine . My favorite wine is the Creative Block , yeah Creative Block 5 . What 's in there ? It is a blend of Merlot , Cabernet Sauvignon , Cabernet Franc , Malbec , and Petit Verdot . Got it . So what was your favorite ? My favorite was the Signature Sauvignon Blanc from Spier . Lovely , lovely wine . Crisp , fruity , fresh everyday wine , good to have with fish and maybe chicken . So it 's a white wine . Yeah , it 's a white wine . So , white wine for you , white wine for me . For me it was actually the Creative Block 3 , was this one , with Shiraz , Mourvèdre , Viognier . Actually all of us did n't choose the most expensive one . Yeah , we did n't . We had one of the very expensive ones , and actually none of us liked it the most . We all liked the inexpensive version of the Pinotage more . So , was a really good experience , and I 'll , you know , got ta head home . He 's driving , not me .