Undergraduate Student Government The Pennsylvania State University 223 HUB - Robeson Center University Park PA 16802-6601 Phone : 814.863.1874 Fax : 814.863.6874 http://www.clubs.psu.edu/up/usg 8 - May - 2006 Robert Pangborn Vice President and Dean for Undergraduate Education 417 Old Main Dr. Pangborn , I hope all is well in the Office of Undergraduate Education , and thank you for scheduling time to meet with me regarding the Penn State Wiki proposal . The overall proposal paints broad strokes in defining how wiki technology can be useful at Penn State ; I look forward to productive conversation with your office focusing on one aspect of the proposal : student - based course descriptions . In three letters submitted to the Office of University Relations and Division of Student Affairs , I defend wiki technology as a means to improve overall University communications . The letters outline faculty and student benefits , editing fundamentals , online legal protections , information quality and reliability , and promotion of free speech in an online setting . The purpose of this letter is to provide appropriate background to facilitate our 9 - May - 2006 meeting . While University Relations and Student Affairs object to University - sponsored public wikis on the grounds that it creates a " risk of false information going out to too many people before it can be corrected , " in addition to the University having a " certain respect for fact checking and the truth " and " responsibility to maintaining accurate information , " 1 I posit that the rational lacks merit in light of individuals being able to judge for themselves what information is trustworthy on a wiki . I acknowledge the University 's responsibility to maintain accurate information on official Web pages , however , the University policy entitled " Copyright Information ” 2 reads as follows ( emphasis added ) : Battle , Catherine . " Penn State decides against supporting wiki project . " The Daily Collegian , 10 - February - 2006 Copyright Information : http://www.psu.edu/ur/copyright.html The information presented on Penn State 's Web site comes from a variety of sources , including not only official Penn State departments and colleges , but also unofficial sources and individuals . Although every effort is made to present current and accurate information , the University does not author or edit all of the pages presented here and therefore can not assume responsibility for all information . The author of each Web page is responsible for the content of that page and is expected to abide by University policies and local , state , and federal laws . The Penn State Wiki was never proposed as a source of official information , and the University already hosts non-official content that is highly circulated yet occasionally incorrect ( e.g. , The Daily Collegian ) . Additionally , higher circulation of a wiki article decreases the likelihood it will contain misinformation , a design advantage not present in other technologies such as newspapers , radio , and most internet sites . As a volunteer editor for the Wikimedia Foundation , I am committed to ensuring that posted information is as accurate and reputable as possible by checking facts and verifying sources . As such , I expect the same of other Wikimedia Foundation contributors and also intend for the standard of expectation to carry over into University - hosted wikis . I published video material on the Undergraduate Student Government ( U.S.G. ) website 3 addressing benefits of wiki technology , and I recorded individual commentary . The following is a partial transcript from one videocast entitled " Introduction to the Penn State Wiki " : U.S.G. Wiki Resources : http://www.clubs.psu.edu/usg/wiki George Chriss : Student -- based class descriptions benefit Penn State two -- fold . The first is the ability for current students enrolled in the class to provide content descriptions for other students considering taking the same course , for those students to have a better idea of what to expect in terms choosing the best academic course for their needs . Penn State currently does n't offer very comprehensive information on any of its 15,000 -- plus courses . The second reason student -- based class descriptions are beneficial to Penn State are in providing instructors and other administrative officials with more up -- to -- date and comprehensive feedback than they would normally be able to receive through traditional methods such as surveys . The idea is for Penn State to have enough input to intelligently benefit and improve upon each of their 15,000 courses . Penn State still maintains control of each of the courses , so the academic standard is kept just as high as it always has been . This is the area Undergraduate Student Government is most passionate about in terms of improving the operation of the University . I suggest instituting a pilot program to evaluate the effectiveness of wikis in providing student - based course descriptions , with one wiki assigned to each academic unit . Under the pilot program , faculty members would be able to volunteer their classes for participation , and any person with University affiliation would be able to edit any of the descriptions . The pilot program , if successful , should attract additional faculty members and encourage departmental participation ; the program would remain manageable while being scaled into widespread usage . I look forward to our discussion on Tuesday , and would be more than willing to elaborate on any of the areas that interest you during or after our meeting . Respectfully , George Chriss Student , University Faculty Senate Eberly College of Science U.S.G. Academic Assembly encl : U.S.G. Joint Resolution 36-01 : Penn State Wiki cc : Donald Leslie , Assistant V.P. and Assoc. Dean for Undergraduate Education