Writing in the Age of Distraction By Cory Doctorow #argument , #systemanalysis #cognitivebias #analysis #sharedvalues #advice #langu age #writinglife “ Distractions ” by Emily boston is licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 We know that our readers are distracted and sometimes even overwhelmed by the myriad distractions that lie one click away on the Internet , but of course writers face the same glorious problem : the delirious world of information and communication and community that lurks behind your screen , one alt - tab away from your word - processor . The single worst piece of writing advice I ever got was to stay away from the Internet because it would only waste my time and would n’t help my writing . This advice was wrong creatively , professionally , artistically , and personally , but I know where the writer who doled it out was coming from . Every now and again , when I see a new website , game , or service , I sense the tug of an attention black hole : a time - sink that is just waiting to fill my every discretionary moment with distraction . As a co-parenting new father who writes at least a book per year , half - a - dozen columns a month , ten or more blog posts a day , plus assorted novellas and stories and speeches , I know just how short time can be and how dangerous distraction is . But the Internet has been very good to me . It ’s informed my creativity and aesthetics , it ’s benefited me professionally and personally , and for every moment it steals , it gives back a hundred delights . I ’d no sooner give it up than I ’d give up fiction or any other pleasurable vice . I think I ’ve managed to balance things out through a few simple techniques that I ’ve been refining for years . I still sometimes feel frazzled and info - whelmed , but that ’s rare . Most of the time , I ’m on top of my workload and my muse . Here ’s how I do it : Short , regular work schedule When I ’m working on a story or novel , I set a modest daily goal — usually a page or two — and then I meet it every day , doing nothing else while I ’m working on it . It ’s not plausible or desirable to try to get the world to go away for hours at a time , but it ’s entirely possible to make it all shut up for 20 minutes . Writing a page every day gets me more than a novel per year — do the math — and there ’s always 20 minutes to be found in a day , no matter what else is going on . Twenty minutes is a short enough interval that it can be claimed from a sleep or meal - break ( though this should n’t become a habit ) . The secret is to do it every day , weekends included , to keep the momentum going , and to allow your thoughts to wander to your next day ’s page between sessions . Try to find one or two vivid sensory details to work into the next page , or a bon mot , so that you ’ve already got some material when you sit down at the keyboard . Leave yourself a rough edge When you hit your daily word - goal , stop . Stop even if you ’re in the middle of a sentence . Especially if you ’re in the middle of a sentence . That way , when you sit down at the keyboard the next day , your first five or ten words are already ordained , so that you get a little push before you begin your work . Knitters leave a bit of yarn sticking out of the day ’s knitting so they know where to pick up the next day — they call it the “ hint . ” Potters leave a rough edge on the wet clay before they wrap it in plastic for the night — it ’s hard to build on a smooth edge . Do n’t be ceremonious Forget advice about finding the right atmosphere to coax your muse into the room . Forget candles , music , silence , a good chair , a cigarette , or putting the kids to sleep . It ’s nice to have all your physical needs met before you write , but if you convince yourself that you can only write in a perfect world , you compound the problem of finding 20 free minutes with the problem of finding the right environment at the same time . When the time is available , just put fingers to keyboard and write . You can put up with noise / silence / kids / discomfort / hunger for 20 minutes . Realtime communications tools are deadly The biggest impediment to concentration is your computer ’s ecosystem of interruption technologies : IM , email alerts , RSS alerts , Skype rings , etc. Anything that requires you to wait for a response , even subconsciously , occupies your attention . Anything that leaps up on your screen to announce something new , occupies your attention . The more you can train your friends and family to use email , message boards , and similar technologies that allow you to save up your conversation for planned sessions instead of demanding your attention right now helps you carve out your 20 minutes . By all means , schedule a chat — voice , text , or video — when it ’s needed , but leaving your IM running is like sitting down to work after hanging a giant “ DISTRACT ME ” sign over your desk , one that shines brightly enough to be seen by the entire world . I do n’t claim to have invented these techniques , but they ’re the ones that have made the 21st century a good one for me .