2.2 The Motivated Learner Questions to consider : How do different types of motivation affect my learning ? What is resilience and grit ? How can I apply the Uses and Gratification Theory to make decisions about my learning ? How do I prevent negative bias from hindering learning ? In this section , you will continue to increase your ability as an informed learner . Here you will explore how much of an influence motivation has on learning , as well as how to use motivation to purposefully take an active role in any learning activity . Rather than passively attempting to absorb new information , you will learn how to make conscious decisions about the methods of learning you will use ( based on what you intend to do with the information ) , how you will select and use learning materials that are appropriate for your needs , and how persistent you will be in the learning activity . There are three main motivation concepts that have been found to directly relate to learning . Each of these has been proven to mean the difference between success and failure . You will find that each of these is a strong tool that will enable you to engage with learning material in a way that not only suits your needs , but also gives you ownership over your own learning processes . Resilience and Grit While much of this chapter will cover very specific aspects about the act of learning , in this section , we will present different information that may at first seem unrelated . Some people would consider it more of a personal outlook than a learning practice , and yet it has a significant influence on the ability to learn . What we are talking about here is called grit or resilience . Grit can be defined as personal perseverance toward a task or goal . In learning , it can be thought of as a trait that drives a person to keep trying until they succeed . It is not tied to talent or ability , but is simply a tendency to not give up until something is finished or accomplished . Figure 2.3 U.S. Army veteran and captain of the U.S. Invictus team , Will Reynolds , races to the finish line . ( Credit : DoD News / Flickr / Attribution 2.0 Generic ( CC-BY 2.0 ) ) The study showed that grit and perseverance were better predictors of academic success and achievement than talent or IQ . This personality trait was defined as “ grit ” by the psychologist Angela Duckworth . 1 In a 2007 study Duckworth and colleagues found that individuals with high grit were able to maintain motivation in learning tasks despite failures . The study examined a cross section of learning environments , such as GPA scores in Ivy League universities , dropout rates at West Point , rankings in the National Spelling Bee , and general educational attainment for adults . What the results showed was that grit and perseverance were better predictors of academic success and achievement than talent or IQ . Duckworth , A. L. ; Peterson , C. ; Matthews , M. D. ; Kelly , D. R. ( June 2007 ) . " Grit : Perseverance and passion for long - term goals " . Journal of Personality and Social Psychology . 92 ( 6 ) : 1087 – 1101 . doi:10.1037/0022-3514.92.6.1087 . PMID 17547490 . Applying Grit The concept of grit is an easy one to dismiss as something taken for granted . In our culture , we have a number of sayings and aphorisms that capture the essence of grit : “ If at first you do not succeed , try , try again , ” or the famous quote by Thomas Edison : “ Genius is one percent inspiration , ninety - nine percent perspiration . ” The problem is we all understand the concept , but actually applying it takes work . If the task we are trying to complete is a difficult one , it can take a lot of work . The first step in applying grit is to adopt an attitude that looks directly to the end goal as the only acceptable outcome . With this attitude comes an acceptance that you may not succeed on the first attempt — or the nineteenth attempt . Failed attempts are viewed as merely part of the process and seen as a very useful way to gain knowledge that moves you toward success . An example of this would be studying for an exam . In your first attempt at studying you simply reread the chapters of your textbook covered in the exam . You find that while this reinforces some of the knowledge you have gained , it does not ensure you have all the information you will need to do well on the test . You know that if you simply read the chapters yet again , there is no guarantee you are going to be any more successful . You determine that you need to find a different approach . In other words , your first attempt was not a complete failure , but it did not achieve the end goal , so you try again with a different method . On your second try , you copy down all of the main points onto a piece of paper using the section headlines from the chapters . After a short break you come back to your list and write down a summary of what you know about each item on your list . This accomplishes two things : first , you are able to immediately spot areas where you need to learn more , and second , you can check your summaries against the text to make certain what you know is correct and adequate . In this example , while you may not have yet achieved complete success , you will have learned what you need to do next . In true grit fashion , for your next try , you study those items on your list where you found you needed a bit more information , and then you go through your list again . This time you are able to write down summaries of all the important points , and you are confident you have the knowledge you need to do well on the exam . After this , you still do not stop , but instead you change your approach to use other methods that keep what you have learned fresh in your mind .