Charles J. Fillmore Charles J. Fillmore ( August 9 , 1929 – February 13 , 2014 ) was an American linguist and Professor of Linguistics at the University of California , Berkeley . He received his Ph.D. in Linguistics from the University of Michigan in 1961 . Fillmore spent ten years at The Ohio State University and a year as a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University before joining Berkeley 's Department of Linguistics in 1971 . [ 1 ] Fillmore was extremely influential in the areas of syntax and lexical semantics . A three–day conference was held at UC Berkeley in celebration of his 80th birthday in 2009 . [ 2 ] Fillmore received the 2012 Lifetime Achievement Award of the Association for Computational Linguistics . [ 3 ] He died in 2014 . [ 4 ] Early years Fillmore spent three years in the U.S. Army stationed in Japan , where he intercepted coded Russian conversations on short - wave radio and taught himself Japanese . [ 2 ] Following his discharge , he taught English at a Buddhist girls ' school while also taking classes at Kyoto University . He returned to the US , receiving his doctorate at the University of Michigan and then teaching at The Ohio State University in Columbus . At the time , he was still a proponent of Noam Chomsky 's theory of generative grammar during its earliest transformational grammar phase . In 1963 , his seminal article The position of embedding transformations in a Grammar introduced the transformational cycle . The central idea is to first apply rules to the smallest applicable unit , then to the smallest unit containing that one , and so on . [ 5 ] This principle has been a foundational insight for theories of syntax since that time . Cognitive linguistics By 1965 , Fillmore had come to acknowledge that semantics plays a crucial role in grammar . [ 6 ] In 1968 , he published his theory of Case Grammar ( Fillmore 1968 ) , which highlighted the fact that syntactic structure can be predicted by semantic participants . An action can have an agent , a patient , purposes , locations , and so on . These participants were called " cases " in his original paper , but later came to be known as semantic roles or thematic relations , which are similar to theta roles in generative grammar . Following his move to the University of California , Berkeley , in 1971 , this theory eventually evolved into a broader cognitive linguistic theory called Frame Semantics ( 1976 ) . A commercial event , for instance , crucially involved elements such as a seller , a buyer , some good , and some money . In language , such an event can be expressed in a variety of different ways , e.g. using the verb ' to sell ' or the verb ' to buy ' . According to frame semantics , meaning is best studied in terms of the mental concepts and participants in the minds of the speaker and addressee . Around the same time , Fillmore 's Santa Cruz Lectures on Deixis , delivered in 1971 and published in 1975 , contributed to establishing the field of linguistic pragmatics , which studies the relationship between linguistic form and the context of utterance . [ 7 ] [ 8 ] In all of this research , he illuminated the fundamental importance of semantics , and its role in motivating syntactic and morphological phenomena . His collaboration with Paul Kay and George Lakoff was generalized into the theory of Construction Grammar . This work aimed at developing a complete theory of grammar that would fully acknowledge the role of semantics right from the start , while simultaneously adopting constraint - based formalisms as popular in computer science and natural language processing . This theory built on the notion of construction from traditional and pedagogical grammars rather than the rule - based formalisms that dominate most of generative grammar . One of Fillmore 's most widely noticed works of the time ( with Paul Kay and Cathy O'Connor ) appeared in ' Language ' in 1988 as " Regularity and Idiomaticity in Grammatical Constructions : The Case of Let Alone " . Their paper highlighted the merits of such a theory of by focusing on the ' let alone ' construction . Over time , construction grammar developed into a research area of its own , and a number of variants have been proposed over the years by different researchers . Fillmore is now widely recognized as one of the founders of cognitive linguistics . The first chapter of “ Cognitive Linguistics ” by Cruse and Croft ( 2004 ) , for instance , begins with a summary of Fillmore 's work . Fillmore served as President of the Linguistic Society of America in 1991 and was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Chicago in 2000 . [ 7 ] His legacy continues with his many notable students , including Adele Goldberg , Laura Michaelis , Christopher Johnson , Miriam R. L. Petruck , Len Talmy , and Eve Sweetser . FrameNet In the 1990s , Fillmore taught classes in computational lexicography at the University of Pisa , where he met Sue Atkins , who was conducting frame - semantic analyses from a lexicographic perspective . In their subsequent discussions and collaborations , Fillmore came to acknowledge the importance of considering corpus data . [ 2 ] They discussed the " dictionary of the future " , in which every word would be linked to example sentences from corpora . [ 7 ] [ 9 ] After 23 years at the University of California , Berkeley , Fillmore retired in 1994 and joined Berkeley 's International Computer Science Institute . [ 6 ] There , he started a project called FrameNet , an on - line structured description of the English lexicon implementing much of what he had earlier proposed more theoretically in his theory of Frame semantics , while implementing the idea of emphasizing example sentences from corpora . In FrameNet , words are described in terms of the frames they evoke . Data is gathered from the British National Corpus , annotated for semantic and syntactic relations , and stored in a database organized by both lexical items and Frames .